<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle">Authentication Options</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Overview</h1>

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> has a flexible authentication architecture, which can
          authenticate VPN users against both a built-in local database and remote
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RADIUS">RADIUS</a> servers.  Windows
          Active Directory can be used through the
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.microsoft.com/technet/network/ias/default.mspx">Internet Authentication Service (IAS)</a> Windows component.
          Both locally and remotely defined users can be used at the same time. 
          The local database always has priority over any external RADIUS servers. 
          External servers are consulted only if a user is not found in the local database.  
        </p>

        <div class="cb-note">
          <p>
            User password change feature is not available
            through the user web interface for RADIUS-authenticated VPN users.
            Site-to-site connections are always authenticated using the local user database only.
          </p>
        </div>

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> supports a wide variety of different RADIUS servers
          and proxies.  Popular RADIUS servers for small and medium-sized businesses include:
          <ul>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.microsoft.com/technet/network/ias/default.mspx">Internet Authentication Service (IAS)</a> for Windows servers</li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.freeradius.org/">FreeRADIUS</a>, a commercial grade freely available open source RADIUS server</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
      </div> <!-- overview -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Using Windows Active Directory</h1>


        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Overview</h1>

          <p>
            To authenticate <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> users against a Windows server, it is easiest to use Microsoft's
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.microsoft.com/technet/network/ias/default.mspx">Internet Authentication Service (IAS)</a> module available for Windows
            server platforms.  In short, IAS provides a RADIUS server module which authenticates users against Active Directory.
            IAS is available for Windows Server 2000, Windows Server 2003, and Windows Server 2008 (where IAS is available
            under the name Network Policy Server, NPS).
          </p>

          <p>
            Setting up IAS:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>Install IAS</li>
            <li>Configure each <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server as a RADIUS client for IAS</li>
            <li>Create a RADIUS policy to authenticate and authorize <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> users</li>
          </ul>
          
          <p>
            There are several ways to control which users are allowed VPN remote access.  The detailed instructions below
            cover the typically desirable configuration where VPN access is granted to users by group membership in a new or existing Windows group
            (for instance, <strong class="cb-guilabel"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Users</strong>).
          </p>
        </div> <!-- Overview (AD) -->
        
        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Installing and Configuring IAS</h1>

          <p>
            These instructions are for Microsoft Windows Server 2003 for Small Business
            Server, Service Pack 1, but apply to other Windows versions with minor changes.
          </p>
          <p>
            To set up IAS authentication, do as follows:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>Install IAS: Open <strong class="cb-guilabel">Start</strong> &rarr;
                                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Control Panel</strong> &rarr;
                                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Add or Remove Programs</strong> &rarr;
                                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Add/Remove Windows Components</strong>.
                Click on <strong class="cb-guilabel">Networking Services</strong> and click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Details...</strong>.
                Check <strong class="cb-guilabel">Internet Authentication Service</strong>, click
                <strong class="cb-guilabel">OK</strong>, and complete the requested installation steps.
                Reboot after IAS has been installed.
            </li>
            <li>
              Start IAS: <strong class="cb-guilabel">Start</strong> &rarr;
                         <strong class="cb-guilabel">Administrative Tools</strong> &rarr;
                         <strong class="cb-guilabel">Internet Authentication Service</strong>.
            </li>
            <li>
              Add RADIUS clients: click once on <strong class="cb-guilabel">RADIUS Clients</strong> on the tree view.
              <ul>
                <li>
                  Right click to open the context menu, and select <strong class="cb-guilabel">New RADIUS Client</strong>.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Enter a <strong class="cb-guilabel">Friendly name</strong>, enter the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
                  server's IP address into the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Client address (IP or DNS)</strong> field, and
                  click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Leave <strong class="cb-guilabel">Client Vendor</strong> as <strong class="cb-guilabel">RADIUS Standard</strong>,
                  set <strong class="cb-guilabel">Shared secret</strong> and <strong class="cb-guilabel">Confirm shared secret</strong>
                  to the same shared secret configured into the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server, and
                  click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Finish</strong>.
                </li>
              </ul>
              Repeat these steps for all RADIUS clients (i.e., for all <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> servers).
            </li>
            <li>
              Edit RADIUS policies: click once on <strong class="cb-guilabel">Remote Access Policies</strong> to see a list
              of policies.
              <ul>
                <li>
                  Right click to open the context menu, and select <strong class="cb-guilabel">New Remote Access Policy</strong>.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong> to start the wizard.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Set up a custom policy</strong>, and enter a useful policy name into
                  the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Policy name</strong> field (example: <strong class="cb-userinput">VPNease Policy</strong>),
                  and click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Add...</strong> to add a new policy condition, select
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Windows-Groups</strong> attribute, and click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Add...</strong>.
                  In the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Groups</strong> window, click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Add...</strong>,
                  enter the name of the Windows group you wish to indicate remote access (example:
                  <strong class="cb-userinput"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Users</strong>) to the
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Enter the object names to select</strong>
                  field, click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Check Names</strong> and <strong class="cb-guilabel">OK</strong> to close the
                  Select Groups dialog, then click <strong class="cb-guilabel">OK</strong> to close the Groups dialog.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong> in the wizard dialog.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Add any other relevant policy conditions here.  For instance, you may wish to restrict VPN access to specific
                  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> servers by identifying them with NAS-Identifier.
                  Note, however, that the syntax used for attribute value matching is regular expression based:
                  "test" will match both "test" and "mytest", while "^test$" will only match "test".
                  See
                  <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://technet2.microsoft.com/windowsserver/en/library/41f30bc9-b444-46b1-a62a-34b03ef4ee581033.mspx?mfr=true">Pattern matching syntax</a>.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Grant remote access permission</strong> and click
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Edit Profile...</strong> and select the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Authentication</strong>
                  tab.
                  Change authentication settings so that the following options are enabled:
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Microsoft Encrypted Authentication version 2 (MS-CHAP v2)</strong> and its suboption
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">User can change password after it has expired</strong>,
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Unencrypted authentication (PAP, SPAP)</strong>.
                   At this point Windows may offer to view a help on authentication; if so, click <strong class="cb-guilabel">No</strong>.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Finish</strong>.  The new policy should now appear in the policy list with highest
                  priority.
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              If you wish to authorize <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> web administration using RADIUS, see instructions below.
            </li>
            <li>
              Edit user accounts.  Add every allowed VPN user to the Windows group entered above.
            </li>
            <li>
              To add a fixed IP address for a user (Framed-IP-Address), see below.
            </li>
            <li>
              Configuration is now completed: restart the IAS server to ensure changes have taken effect.
               You should test RADIUS authentication with a test client.
              You can also choose to customize your remote access policy or other settings further.
            </li>
          </ul>
        </div> <!-- installation and initial configuration -->

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Limitations</h1>
          <p>
            Note that the following features do not interoperate currently with <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> or
            some VPN clients:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>Non-ASCII (international) characters in VPN usernames or passwords</li>
            <li>Forced user password change during MSCHAPv2 authentication ("User must change password at next logon" option
                from Active Directory Users and Computers view)</li>
          </ul>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Configuring Fixed IP Addresses</h1>

          <p>
            If you wish to use fixed IP addresses for VPN users, a RADIUS Framed-IP-Address
            attribute needs to be included in a RADIUS Access-Accept packet.
            There are two places where RADIUS Framed-IP-Address assignment can be controlled:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              IAS remote access policies
              <ul>
                <li>
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Internet Authentication Service (Local)</strong> &rarr;
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Remote Access Policies</strong> &rarr;
                  &lt;policyname&gt; &rarr;
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Properties</strong> &rarr;
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Edit Profile</strong> &rarr;
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">IP</strong> &rarr;
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">IP address assignment (Framed-IP-Address)</strong>
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              Active Directory user profiles
              <ul>
                <li>
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Active Directory Users and Computers</strong> &rarr;
                  &lt;user&gt; &rarr;
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Properties</strong> &rarr;
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Dial-In</strong> &rarr;
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Assign a Static IP Address</strong>
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
          </ul>

          <p>
            When the Active Directory user profile specifies a dial-in address, that address
            overrides any IAS Framed-IP-Address settings.
          </p>

          <p>
            There are many ways to configure Framed-IP-Address assignment in IAS; please consult
            Microsoft documentation for details.  However, in simple configurations the following
            settings are straightforward to configure:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              Set the remote access policy <strong class="cb-guilabel">IP address assignment (Framed-IP-Address)</strong>
              setting to <strong class="cb-guilabel">Server settings determine IP address assignment</strong>.
            </li>
            <li>
              Set the Active Directory user profile <strong class="cb-guilabel">Assign a Static IP Address</strong>
              for those users for whom you wish to force a specific VPN address.
            </li>
          </ul>

          <p>
            Note that this configuration is not sufficient if a user should be forced a different
            fixed address for different VPN access servers.  Please consult Microsoft documentation
            if you need to configure a more advanced setup.
          </p>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Configuring Web UI Administrator Authorization</h1>

          <p>
            By default users authenticated through IAS are only authorized to use VPN connections
            and access the user web interface; users are not allowed to login as administrators to
            the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server.  Because administrator access is such
            a critical capability, enabling administrator access for RADIUS authenticated users
            requires deliberate RADIUS server configuration; see below for RADIUS details.
          </p>

          <p>
            To enable <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server web UI administrator access for
            a IAS authenticated user, do as follows:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              Create a new Windows group whose membership indicates that a user should have
              access to the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> web UI administrator interface.
              You may, of course, use an existing group.
            </li>
            <li>
              Create a new remote access policy (see instructions above), with the following
              specific settings:
              <ul>
                <li>
                  Name the policy clearly, e.g. as <strong class="cb-userinput">VPNease Administrators</strong>.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Add policy condition: <strong class="cb-guilabel">Service-Type</strong> equals <strong class="cb-guilabel">Authenticate-Only</strong>
                  (used by <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server for web UI authentication).
                </li>
                <li>
                  Add policy condition: <strong class="cb-guilabel">Authentication-Type</strong> equals <strong class="cb-guilabel">PAP</strong>.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Add policy condition: <strong class="cb-guilabel">NAS-Identifier</strong> matches the set of <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
                  servers to which administrator access should be granted (you may skip this condition if you don't need server identification).
                </li>
                <li>
                  Add policy condition: <strong class="cb-guilabel">Windows-Groups</strong> contains a Windows group that you wish to use
                  to signify administrator access (e.g. <strong class="cb-userinput"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Administrators</strong>).
                </li>
                <li>
                  Add any other policy conditions that you feel are appropriate for ensuring that only
                  administratos are granted access.
                </li>
                <li>
                  Select the action for authenticated users as <strong class="cb-guilabel">Grant remote access permission</strong>.
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              Ensure that the policy has a higher priority than a policy for ordinary <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> users.
            </li>
            <li>
              Open the policy properties and click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Edit Profile</strong>.
              Configure the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Authentication</strong> settings (see above for details).
              Then select
              <strong class="cb-guilabel">Advanced</strong> (Specify additional connection attributes to be returned to the Remote Access server).
              Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Add...</strong>, select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Vendor-Specific</strong> and click
              <strong class="cb-guilabel">Add</strong>.
            </li>
            <li>
              In the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Multivalued Attribute Information</strong> window, click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Add</strong>.
              Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Enter Vendor Code</strong> and enter <strong class="cb-userinput">26058</strong>.  Select conformance
              level <strong class="cb-guilabel">Yes, it conforms</strong> and click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Configure Attribute...</strong>.
              Enter the following values:
              <ul>
                <li>
                  Vendor-assigned attribute number: 1
                </li>
                <li>
                  Attribute format: Decimal
                </li>
                <li>
                  Attribute value: 1
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              Close all the nested windows, and restart the IAS service.
            </li>
          </ul>

          <p>
            At this point RADIUS requests are first checked against the administrator remote access policy defined above, and
            if that policy fails to match, the non-administrator remote access policy is then checked.  Note that it is important
            that the administrator policy not <strong class="cb-bold">reject</strong> non-administrator users because web UI
            authentication for normal users would be prevented.  The intent of the policy conditions is to ensure this does not happen.
          </p>

          <p>
            Finally, note that IAS (or a RADIUS server in general) cannot distinguish between user and administrator RADIUS requests.
            If the username and password are correct, the server should reply with Access-Accept, and the presence of the vendor specific
            attribute defines whether the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server should allow administrator access.  If the attribute
            is not present, administrator authentication fails despite the RADIUS server returning an Access-Accept response.
          </p>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">More Information about IAS</h1>

          <p>
            For more information about IAS:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.microsoft.com/technet/network/ias/default.mspx">Internet Authentication Service</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://technet2.microsoft.com/windowsserver/en/library/41f30bc9-b444-46b1-a62a-34b03ef4ee581033.mspx?mfr=true">Pattern matching syntax</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.microsoft.com/technet/network/ias/iasfaq.mspx">Internet Authentication Service: Frequently Asked Questions</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=27c432bf-5ed0-4763-8909-36e7c310ae3c&amp;displaylang=en">Windows Server 2003 Internet Authentication Service (IAS) Operations Guide</a></li>
          </ul>
        </div>
      </div> <!-- Using Windows Active directory -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Configuring FreeRADIUS</h1>

        <p>
          See <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://wiki.freeradius.org/Configuration">wiki.freeradius.org/Configuration</a>.
        </p>
      </div> <!-- configuring freeradius -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> RADIUS Details</h1>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Particular Features of the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> RADIUS Implementation</h1>

          <ul>
            <li>
              RADIUS Service-Type:
              RADIUS Service-Type attribute is set to Framed-User when authenticating a user VPN connection, and to Authenticate-Only when
              a user is authenticating to the user web interface.  Please ensure that your RADIUS server handles both of these service
              types correctly (you may deny user web interface access by treating the requests differently, but we recommend that you
              treat the requests the same way).
            </li>
            <li>
              RADIUS authentication method:
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> translates the negotiated PPP authentication method (negotiated using PPP inside the
              L2TP/IPsec encrypted transport connection) directly into RADIUS authentication as follows:
              PPP PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) is translated to RADIUS PAP, while
              PPP MSCHAPv2 (Microsoft CHAPv2) is translated to RADIUS MSCHAPv2.
              Other PPP authentication methods are not supported, because they do not translate well to the RADIUS protocol.
              In particular, methods other than PAP and MSCHAPv2 would require the RADIUS server to store plaintext versions of user
              passwords.
              Web authentication always uses RADIUS PAP authentication.
            </li>
            <li>
              RADIUS Proxy-State attribute:
              Access-Request packets sent by <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> contain a Proxy-State attribute because
              the product contains a built-in RADIUS proxy.  This means that all RADIUS proxies in the path from
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> to the RADIUS server, and the RADIUS server itself, must support the Proxy-State
              attribute to work correctly with <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server.
            </li>
            <li>
              RADIUS Framed-IP-Address attribute:
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> respects the Framed-IP-Address RADIUS attribute in an Access-Accept response.
              The address provided by the RADIUS server is assigned to the VPN client as its PPP address.  The Framed-IP-Address
              must not overlap with the PPP client range configured in the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> administrator
              interface.
            </li>
            <li>
              RADIUS Session-Timeout attribute:
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> respects the Session-Timeout RADIUS attribute in an Access-Accept response.
            </li>
            <li>
              RADIUS NAS-Identifier attribute:
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> allows you to configure NAS-Identifier which allows you to identify the
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server reliably even if the server's IP address is dynamic or changes at
              some point.  If NAS Identifier is left empty in the administrator interface, the NAS-Identifier is omitted from
              RADIUS Access-Request packets.
            </li>
            <li>
              Username for IAS authentication can be both plain (example: <strong class="cb-userinput">john.doe</strong>) or contain
              a domain name (example: <strong class="cb-userinput">john.doe@example.com</strong>).  The IAS server accepts both forms.
              This is not guaranteed of other RADIUS servers.
            </li>
            <li>
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> ignores most response attributes other than message type (Access-Reject, Access-Accept)
              and MSCHAPv2 related attributes.    However, Framed-IP-Address and Session-Timeout are supported.
            </li>
            <li>
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> does not send or receive RADIUS accounting packets.
            </li>
          </ul>
        </div> <!-- particular features -->

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">NAT Compatibility</h1>

          <p>
            When a NAT or port forwarding device exists between a RADIUS client
            (<n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server) and a RADIUS server, care must be taken to ensure
            that RADIUS works correctly:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              The address of the RADIUS client (<n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server) as seen by the
              RADIUS server is the address of the NAT device, which is different from the address of the RADIUS client;
              a similar difference of apparent address occurs when the RADIUS server is behind
              a port forwarding device.
              These differences in apparent address of the other peer affect RADIUS authentication.
              To ensure that authentication works correctly, configure the address associated with a certain
              RADIUS secret to the apparent address as seen by the server in question.
              For instance, if the RADIUS client is behind a NAT device, associate the RADIUS secret in the
              RADIUS server to the address of the NAT device.
            </li>
            <li>
              The NAS-IP-Address attribute in RADIUS Access-Request packets may be meaningless and unreliable
              if a RADIUS client (<n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server) is behind a NAT device.  Use
              the NAS-Identifier to identify servers instead.
            </li>
          </ul>

          <p>
            By taking these two basic issues into account, RADIUS should work through NAT and port forwarding
            devices without any problems.
          </p>
        </div> <!-- nat compatibility -->

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Attributes of <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Access-Request Packets</h1>

          <p>
            Attributes contained in <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Access-Request RADIUS packets (VPN authentication,
            uses RADIUS PAP or RADIUS MSCHAPv2, depending on negotiated PPP authentication method; here RADIUS MSCHAPv2):
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>Service-Type: Framed-User</li>
            <li>Framed-Protocol: PPP</li>
            <li>User-Name: varies</li>
            <li>MS-CHAP-Challenge: varies (Microsoft vendor specific)</li>
            <li>MS-CHAP2-Response: varies (Microsoft vendor specific)</li>
            <li>NAS-IP-Address: varies</li>
            <li>NAS-Port: 0</li>
            <li>Proxy-State: varies</li>
            <li>NAS-Port-Type: Virtual</li>
            <li>NAS-Identifier: varies (omitted if empty)</li>
          </ul>

          <p>
            Attributes contained in <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Access-Request RADIUS packets (web authentication,
            always uses RADIUS PAP):
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>User-Name: varies</li>
            <li>User-Password: varies</li>
            <li>Service-Type: Authenticate-Only</li>
            <li>NAS-IP-Address: varies</li>
            <li>NAS-Port: 0</li>
            <li>Proxy-State: varies</li>
            <li>NAS-Port-Type: Virtual</li>
            <li>NAS-Identifier: varies (omitted if empty)</li>
          </ul>
        </div> <!-- access request attributes -->

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Supported Attributes of Access-Accept Packets</h1>

          <p>
            Attributes supported in Access-Accept packets (for VPN authentication):
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>Framed-IP-Address</li>
            <li>Session-Timeout</li>
            <li>VE-User-Administrator-Privileges (VPNease vendor specific)</li>
          </ul>
        </div> <!-- access accept attributes -->
      </div> <!-- radius details -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Authenticating Administrators Using RADIUS</h1>

        <p>
          When <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> sends a web authentication request (with Service-Type
          set to Authentication-Only), you can configure your RADIUS server to grant web UI administrator
          privileges to the user by adding the following vendor specific attribute to the Access-Accept packet:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>Vendor number: 26058</li>
          <li>Attribute number: 1 (VE-User-Administrator-Privileges)</li>
          <li>Attribute type: Integer</li>
          <li>Attribute value: 1</li>
        </ul>

        <p>
          Without this attribute, the user has no administrator privileges and cannot log in through the
          web administrator interface.
        </p>

        <p>
          You can download a RADIUS dictionary file with this attribute from the
          <a href="latest-version.html">download</a> page.
        </p>
      </div> <!-- authenticating admin users -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> RADIUS Packet Dumps</h1>

        <p>
          The following slightly simplified packet dumps are provided to help resolve RADIUS server configuration problems.
        </p>

        <p>
          Example packet dumps for RADIUS MSCHAPv2 authentication of a remote access VPN connection against a Windows Server 2003 IAS server:
        </p>
<pre>Frame 1 (N bytes on wire, N bytes captured)
    [...]
Ethernet II, Src: ss:ss:ss:ss:ss:ss, Dst: dd:dd:dd:dd:dd:dd
    [...]
Internet Protocol, Src: x.x.x.x (x.x.x.x), Dst: y.y.y.y (y.y.y.y)
    [...]
User Datagram Protocol, Src Port: XXXX (XXXX), Dst Port: radius (1812)
    [...]
Radius Protocol
    Code: Access-Request (1)
    Packet identifier: 0xXX (X)
    Length: N
    Authenticator: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    Attribute Value Pairs
        AVP: l=N  t=Service-Type(6): Framed-User(2)
            Service-Type: Framed-User (2)
        AVP: l=N  t=Framed-Protocol(7): PPP(1)
            Framed-Protocol: PPP (1)
        AVP: l=N  t=User-Name(1): xxxxxxxx
            User-Name: xxxxxxxx
        AVP: l=N  t=Vendor-Specific(26) v=Microsoft(311)
            VSA: l=N t=MS-CHAP-Challenge(11): XXXXXXXX...
                MS-CHAP-Challenge: XXXXXXXX...
        AVP: l=N  t=Vendor-Specific(26) v=Microsoft(311)
            VSA: l=N t=MS-CHAP2-Response(25): XXXXXXXX...
                MS-CHAP2-Response: XXXXXXXX...
        AVP: l=N  t=NAS-IP-Address(4): x.x.x.x
            NAS-IP-Address: x.x.x.x (x.x.x.x)
        AVP: l=N  t=NAS-Port(5): 0
            NAS-Port: 0
        AVP: l=N  t=Proxy-State(33): XXXX
            Proxy-State: XXXX
        AVP: l=N  t=NAS-Port-Type(61): Virtual(5)
            NAS-Port-Type: Virtual (5)
        AVP: l=N  t=NAS-Identifier(32): xxxxxxxx   [omitted if empty]
            NAS-Identifier: xxxxxxxx
</pre>

        <p>
          Example packet dumps for RADIUS PAP authentication of a user web interface connection against a Windows Server 2003 IAS server:
        </p>
<pre>Frame 1 (N bytes on wire, N bytes captured)
    [...]
Ethernet II, Src: ss:ss:ss:ss:ss:ss, Dst: dd:dd:dd:dd:dd:dd
    [...]
Internet Protocol, Src: x.x.x.x (x.x.x.x), Dst: y.y.y.y (y.y.y.y)
    [...]
User Datagram Protocol, Src Port: XXXX (XXXX), Dst Port: radius (1812)
    [...]
Radius Protocol
    Code: Access-Request (1)
    Packet identifier: 0xXX (X)
    Length: N
    Authenticator: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    Attribute Value Pairs
        AVP: l=N  t=User-Name(1): xxxxxxxx
            User-Name: xxxxxxxx
        AVP: l=N  t=User-Password(2): Encrypted
            User-Password: XXXXXXXX...
        AVP: l=N  t=Service-Type(6): Authenticate-Only(8)
            Service-Type: Authenticate-Only (8)
        AVP: l=N  t=NAS-IP-Address(4): x.x.x.x
            NAS-IP-Address: x.x.x.x (x.x.x.x)
        AVP: l=N  t=NAS-Port(5): 0
            NAS-Port: 0
        AVP: l=N  t=Proxy-State(33): XXXX
            Proxy-State: XXXX
        AVP: l=N  t=NAS-Port-Type(61): Virtual(5)
            NAS-Port-Type: Virtual (5)
        AVP: l=N  t=NAS-Identifier(32): xxxxxxxx   [omitted if empty]
            NAS-Identifier: xxxxxxxx
</pre>
      </div> <!-- radius packet dumps -->

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>

