<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle">Client Configuration</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> uses the built-in VPN client provided by your
          operating system, so no client installation is required.
          Configuring the built-in VPN client is easy: for Windows 2000, XP, and Vista,
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> provides an automatic VPN connection configuration feature;
          for other operating systems <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> provides easy step-by-step
          configuration instructions.
        </p>

        <p>
          To configure you client for VPN use:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>Start a web browser and type in the address of the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server
              into the browser address bar.</li>
          <li>Login using the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> username and password.  Note that the
              same username and password are used for both web user interface and VPN access.</li>
          <li>For Windows 2000, XP, and Vista, follow the instructions for automatic configuration.</li>
          <li>For other operating systems, select the client operating system from the navigation menu on the left and follow
              configuration instructions.</li>
        </ul>

        <p>
          You can preview the client configuration interface and optionally test compatibility with
          an actual client by using our <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://test.vpnease.com/">test server</a>.
          For more information about the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> 
          test server, see <a href="test-servers.html">Test Servers</a>.
        </p>

        <div class="cb-note">
          <p>
            For some platforms, such as Linux-based systems, additional software is required.
            Such platforms do not typically have a built-in remote access VPN client, so additional
            software is mandatory.
          </p>
        </div>
      </div> <!-- configuring remote access clients -->

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>


