<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle">Quick Installation Guide</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Overview</h1>

        <p>
          Quick installation requires the following:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>A dedicated PC with at least 1 GHz CPU, 256 MB RAM, and 2 GB hard disk</li>
          <li>A client computer with a supported operating system
              (e.g. Windows XP/Vista, Mac OS X)</li>
          <li>45 minutes for installation and testing</li>
        </ul>

        <p>
          For comprehensive installation instructions, see
          <a href="server-installation.html">Server Installation</a>.
        </p>
      </div>

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Step 1: Download and Burn Installation CD</h1>
        <p>
          <a href="latest-version.html">Download</a> the latest <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server ISO image
          and burn it to a CD or DVD.  Please ensure that you burn the ISO image as is instead of creating a data CD
          containing the ISO image as a file.
        </p>
      </div>

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Step 2: Check Server Requirements and Install</h1>
        <p>
          The <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server is installed on a dedicated PC with the following minimum
          requirements: 1 GHz CPU, 256 MB RAM, and 2 GB hard disk.  For details, see <a href="server-requirements.html">Server Requirements</a>.
        </p>
        <p>
          Boot from the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server installation CD (you may need to change your BIOS boot settings for this),
          click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Install product</strong>, select a hard disk for installation, and confirm installation.
          The installation process takes about 15 minutes.
          Once installation is complete, click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Reboot computer</strong> to reboot, and remove the CD from
          the drive when it is ejected.
        </p>
        <p>
          If you are familiar with VMware, you can also install <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server into a VMware guest.
          See <a href="virtualization-products.html">Virtualization Products</a> for details, and other supported virtualization platforms.
        </p>
      </div>

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Step 3: Perform Initial Server Configuration</h1>
        <p>
          We suggest the following network configuration: the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server is installed into
          the company intranet, to the same subnet where company servers reside.  The company firewall is then configured
          to port forward connections from the company Internet connection to the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server
          to allow VPN access from the Internet (see step 4 below).
        </p>

        <p>
          Boot the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server (you may need to change your BIOS boot settings for this).
          Login to the administrator interface and perform the following minimum configuration steps:
          <ul>
            <li>Go to the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network</strong> page.</li>
            <li>Check the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Internet Connection</strong> settings: you should either select DHCP or static address configuration.
                For static configuration you need to enter a static IP address, subnet mask, and default gateway, and enter a
                DNS server address manually to the DNS Servers group.</li>
            <li>Select a pre-shared key used for computer authentication and enter it into the
                <strong class="cb-guilabel">VPN Connection Settings</strong> &rarr; <strong class="cb-guilabel">Primary pre-shared key</strong> field.</li>
            <li>Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Save changes</strong>.</li>
            <li>Go to the <strong class="cb-guilabel">User Accounts</strong> page.</li>
            <li>Add a VPN user by clicking on the plus sign in the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Users</strong> group.
                Enter a username and a password for the user.</li>
            <li>Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Save changes</strong>.</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
        <p>
          The <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server status page shows all basic server
          information.
          The product will automatically request a demo license for 30 days, and the available
          demo license time is shown.
          Check the IP address of the Internet connection and write it down for later use.
        </p>
      </div>

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Step 4: Configure Company Firewall</h1>

        <p>
          Write down the company firewall's Internet IP address, as it is needed for VPN client use.
          Add port forwarding rules to the firewall, to forward the following protocols
          and ports from the Internet connection to the
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server's IP address: 
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>UDP port 500 (IPsec)</li>
          <li>UDP port 4500 (IPsec)</li>
          <li>TCP port 80 (web UI, optional but recommended)</li>
          <li>TCP port 443 (web UI, optional but recommended)</li>
        </ul>

        <p>
          Not forwarding TCP ports 80 and 443 disables access to the
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> web user interface from the Internet.
          You can access the web user interface from the intranet instead.
          If you use client autoconfiguration from the intranet, edit the VPN connection
          properties afterwards, changing the
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server address from the intranet address
          to the Internet address.
        </p>
      </div>

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Step 5: Configure and Test Client Computer</h1>
        <p>
          Select a laptop or desktop computer for testing the VPN connection.  Connect the laptop
          to the Internet (not the intranet), open a browser
          window and enter the IP address of the firewall's Internet connection.
          Login to the web user interface with the VPN user's username and password (configured in step 3).
        </p>

        <p>
          Configuring and testing the VPN connection depends on the client computer operating system:
          <ul>
            <li>Windows XP and Vista: click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Autoconfigure</strong>, run the
                downloaded executable, and reboot the computer.  After reboot, open Network Connections,
                double click on the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> VPN icon, enter username and
                password, and click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Connect</strong>.</li>
            <li>Mac OS X: select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Mac OS X</strong> from the menu on the left
                and follow configuration instructions.</li>
          </ul>
        </p>
        <p>
          You should now have a VPN connection and access to all your company resources through
          the VPN connection.
        </p>
        <p>
          Note that if you want to test the VPN connection from the intranet for some reason,
          you need to use the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server rather than the firewall's
          address in the web browser and the VPN profile.  Port forwarding does not always work when
          connections are initiated from the intranet.
        </p>
      </div>

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>


