<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle">Server BIOS Setup</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Overview</h1>

        <p>
          The PC <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BIOS">BIOS</a> controls many
          aspects of PC hardware relevant to <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> use,
          such as computer startup procedure and low level hardware configuration.
          BIOS settings are specific to each motherboard, so the configuration procedure
          varies widely between BIOS versions.
        </p>
        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server does not require any specific BIOS settings.
          The BIOS setup steps described below are recommended in order to minimize problems during
          the product installation and usage.  
        </p>
      </div> <!-- overview -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">BIOS Setup Steps</h1>

        <p>
          We recommend the following BIOS setup steps.
        </p>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">BIOS Update</h1>

          <p>
            Check your BIOS version and install a BIOS update if available from your motherboard manufacturer.
            BIOS updates can prevent problems with operating system hardware drivers, and are especially
            important for recently introduced motherboard models.
          </p>
        </div> <!-- bios update -->

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">BIOS Configuration</h1>

          <ul>
            <li>
              Enter BIOS configuration by booting your computer and pressing your BIOS specific
              settings activation key (typically
              <strong class="cb-keycap">DEL</strong>,
              <strong class="cb-keycap">F2</strong>,
              <strong class="cb-keycap">F8</strong>, or
              <strong class="cb-keycap">ESC</strong>)
            </li>

            <li>Reset BIOS settings to default values</li>

            <li>Configure processor, bus, memory, and performance settings.
                Use conservative settings (labeled <strong class="cb-guilabel">Normal</strong> or similar)
                unless you have a good reason for doing otherwise
            </li>

            <li>Configure boot order
              <ul>
                <li>Enable booting from the CD/DVD drive</li>  
                <li>Enable booting from USB HDD (for USB stick installation)</li>
                <li>Enable booting from hard disk</li>
                <li>Select boot order as follows: CD/DVD first, USB HDD second, and HDD last</li>
              </ul>
            </li>

            <li>Disable any automatic power management features
              <ul>
                <li>These include features such as screen savers, timed shutdown, etc</li>
                <li>Such features are not desired in server systems as they may cause unpredictable
                    operating system interactions and service disruptions</li>
              </ul>
            </li>

            <li>Disable extra devices
              <ul>
                <li>
                  Disable any extra integrated audio, video capture, wireless LAN, or other unnecessary
                  motherboard-specific devices
                </li>
                <li>
                   Integrated video (VGA) and integrated network interface cards (NICs) should be left
                   enabled as appropriate
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>

            <li>Disable anti-virus features (anti-virus detection and warning)</li>

            <li>Set BIOS date and time
              <ul>
                <li>
                   Note that <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> will update its time automatically,
                   but setting BIOS date and
                   time is still recommended, as it minimizes system discrepancies (e.g. in log files)
                </li>
                <li>Set BIOS time to UTC (Coordinated Universal Time), <strong class="cb-bold">not</strong>
                    your local time zone</li>
              </ul>
            </li>

            <li>Other settings
              <ul>
                <li>Enable Quick POST (Power On Self Test) if available; this speeds up the boot-up sequence</li>
              </ul>  
            </li>

            <li>Save settings and exit BIOS setup</li>
          </ul>
        
          <div class="cb-note">
            <p>
              If any of your BIOS settings is out of the ordinary, write down any special
              settings for later use.  This will help reconfigure the system should BIOS settings be
              lost due to motherboard NVRAM battery problems.
            </p>
          </div>
        </div> <!-- bios configuration -->
      </div> <!-- bios setup steps -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">BIOS in Virtualization Products</h1>

        <p>
          Most virtualization products, such as VMware and Virtual PC, also have BIOS settings
          for the virtual machine hardware.  Setting hardware and power management features is not
          crucial for such environments, as the defaults are usually acceptable for server use.
          However, boot order must still be configured correctly.
        </p>
      </div> <!-- bios in virtualization products -->
    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
