<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle">Server Requirements</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">
    
      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Server Hardware Requirements</h1>
           
          <ul>
            <li>Processor: 32-bit or 64-bit x86, recommended 2 GHz or more</li>
            <li>Memory: minimum 256 MiB</li>
            <li>Networking: one or two 10 Mbps or faster Ethernet network interfaces (NICs) depending on the network configuration</li>
            <li>Storage: 2 GB or larger, dedicated storage device for installation.
                Storage device can be either hard drive (USB, IDE, SCSI, Serial ATA) or
                flash memory (USB stick, IDE Compact Flash)
            </li>
            <li>BIOS: if USB stick installation is used, must be capable of booting from a USB HDD.
                If installation target is smaller than 4 GB, requires a BIOS capable of booting from
                hard disks larger than 512 MB.</li>
          </ul>
      </div> <!-- hw requirements -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Server Hardware Compatibility</h1>

          <p>
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server is based on the <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.ubuntu.com/">Ubuntu</a> Linux
            distribution, with up-to-date hardware compatibility for all standard PC hardware.
            The latest <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> is based on <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="https://help.ubuntu.com/6.06/">Ubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper Drake)</a>.
            For more information on hardware compatibility issues, see:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.ubuntu.com/support">Ubuntu's support pages</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport">Ubuntu's hardware support Wiki</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="https://help.ubuntu.com/6.06/">Documentation for Ubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper Drake)</a></li>
          </ul>

          <div class="cb-note">
            <p>
              Although <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> is based on the Ubuntu distribution,
              <strong class="cb-bold">it is not supported by Ubuntu</strong>.
              Contact <a href="support-home.html"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> support</a> or your service provider
              in all support matters.  Please do not contact Ubuntu for <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> support.
            </p>
          </div>

          <p>
            A few practical tips in choosing hardware:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>Select recent but not the newest possible hardware to minimize risks with immature hardware</li>
            <li>Use well-known, quality storage devices with long guarantee periods (3 years or more)</li>
            <li>Flash-based storage devices can be considerably slower than magnetic storage devices,
                but have no moving parts and can provide more reliable long term operation</li>
            <li>Favor low temperature and/or fanless components over more powerful, fan-cooled components</li>
            <li>Check Linux (Ubuntu) compatibility from your seller</li>
            <li>If Linux compatibility is uncertain, consider using a virtualization product as
                a platform for the product. This eliminates compatibility issues and allows
                you to choose any host operating system (e.g. Windows or other Linux variant)</li>
          </ul>
      </div> <!-- pc hardware compatibility -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Network Requirements</h1>

        <ul>
          <li>Internet connection speed: minimum 512 kbps.</li>
          <li>Internet Service Provider (ISP) must not block the following protocols and ports:
            <ul>
              <li>UDP/500 (IPsec)</li>
              <li>UDP/4500 (IPsec)</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>The following protocols and ports are optional for <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> usage: 
            <ul>
              <li>TCP/80 (HTTP, administrator and user web user interface access)</li>
              <li>TCP/443 (HTTPS, administrator and user web user interface access)</li>
              <li>IP protocol 50 (IPsec ESP without NAT traversal, required for clients without NAT traversal support)</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </div> <!-- network requirements -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Software Requirements</h1>
          <p>
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server has a web-based administrator interface, which requires 
            Javascript support.
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server can be configured with the local Firefox browser
            automatically installed on the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server.
            To use the administrator interface from another computer the following browsers are supported: 
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>Firefox (1.5 or newer)</li>
            <li>Internet Explorer (6.0 or newer)</li>
            <li>Safari (2.0.1 or newer)</li>
          </ul>
          
          <p>
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> also has a separate web-based interface for VPN users, which provides
            user account management and
            guides for configuring the VPN client for supported operating systems.
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> user web interface does not require Javascript and works with almost any browser, such as:
          </p>
            <ul>
              <li>Firefox (1.5 or newer)</li>
              <li>Internet Explorer (5.0 or newer)</li>
              <li>Safari</li>
              <li>Opera</li>
              <li>Konqueror</li>
              <li>W3m</li>
          </ul>
      </div>
      
      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Virtualization Products</h1>

        <p>
          In addition to using dedicated hardware, <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server
          can also be installed on existing hardware by using a virtualization product, such as
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.vmware.com/">VMware</a>,
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.microsoft.com/windows/virtualpc/default.mspx">Microsoft Virtual PC</a>,
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserversystem/virtualserver/default.mspx">Microsoft Virtual Server</a>,
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://technet2.microsoft.com/windowsserver2008/en/servermanager/virtualization.mspx">Microsoft Hyper-V</a>,
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel-based_Virtual_Machine">KVM</a> (free),
          or
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.parallels.com/">Parallels</a>.
          See <a href="virtualization-products.html">Virtualization Products</a> for more details.
        </p>

        <p>
          Installation on top of a virtualization product is recommended if:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>There is existing server hardware that can comfortably share some capacity for
              terminating remote access connections.  Typically only about 10% of server capacity
              is required to run a remote access gateway, yielding great hardware savings.
              If your company manages customer equipment, this is a great opportunity
              for providing additional options to your customer with minimal investment.</li>
          <li>Your hardware is not compatible with the Linux distribution (Ubuntu) which is
              used as a basis for the product.  Virtualization can overcome hardware compatibility
              issues, because any host operating system (e.g. Windows or other Linux variant)
              can be installed on the host hardware.  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
              will only see standardized virtual hardware.</li>
          <li>Your networking hardware is not Ethernet based (e.g. PPPoE or a modem connection).
              The virtualization product will hide the actual networking hardware and present
              a virtual Ethernet device for <n:invisible n:macro="productname"/>.</li>
          <li>You plan to install multiple remote access servers with different configurations,
              or you need some supporting servers and wish to minimize hardware costs.</li>
        </ul>

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> has been tested with all major virtualization
          products.  See <a href="virtualization-products.html">Virtualization Products</a>
          for more detailed information.
        </p>
      </div> <!-- virtualization products -->
    
      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">High Reliability Installations</h1>

        <p>
          For the high reliability installations we recommend one of the following:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>Use a virtualization product and configure RAID hardware to the host
              computer. This provides storage reliability for the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
              server as well.
          </li>
          
          <li>
            Use a reliable USB stick (flash memory) or Compact Flash IDE (SATA) hard disk
            instead of a normal (magnetic) hard disk.  Hard disks are a common cause of failure
            in server systems, and flash-memory-based hard disks avoid this common cause.
          </li>
        </ul>

        <div class="cb-note">
          <p>
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> does not support RAID devices directly.
            To use software or hardware RAID, use a virtualization product and configure
            RAID in the host computer.
          </p>
        </div>
      </div> <!-- high reliability -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">PC Hardware Reliability Tips</h1>

        <ul>
          <li>
            <strong class="cb-bold">Minimize the number of cooling fans and invest in quality fans</strong>.
            Cooling fans are a common source of failure.  A failing fan results in an increased computer
            temperature leading to
            increased risk of processor and other chip instability,
            increased risk of expansion card failures,
            and decreased lifetime of hard disks.
          </li>  
          <li>
            <strong class="cb-bold">Check temperature</strong>.
            Allow the system to run for a day or two, and check case temperature.  You
            can typically check the temperature values by restarting the computer and entering
            the BIOS setup screen.  BIOSes typically display temperature and fan information
            in one of their information screens.  Refer to your computer hardware manuals
            for information about expected operating temperatures.
          </li>
          <li>
            <strong class="cb-bold">Use quality components</strong>.
            Purchase quality components (motherboard, memory, network card).  Low quality
            components may lead to failures which are difficult to trace and correct.
          </li>
          <li>
            <strong class="cb-bold">Run a "torture test"</strong>.
            Run torture tests on your hardware to ensure the hardware performs correctly
            under heavy load.  Common hardware torture tests include:
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memtest86">Memtest86</a>
            (included on the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Live CD),
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime95">Prime95</a>,
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_PI">Super PI</a>,
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SiSoftware_Sandra">SiSoftware Sandra</a>,
            and
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BOINC">BOINC</a>.
          </li>
          <li>
            <strong class="cb-bold">Replace hard disks before they fail</strong>.
            If you use a normal magnetic hard disk, replace it with a new one before it
            fails.  Typical lifetime of a hard disk in normal use is 3-5 years.  Check
            your hard disk data sheet for mean-time-to-failure (MTTF) estimates.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </div> <!-- reliability tips -->

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
