<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle">Site-to-Site Configuration</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Overview</h1>

        <p>
          A site-to-site VPN connection routes traffic between two company sites by encrypting
          and sending traffic using an IPsec-protected "tunnel".  In practice, a site-to-site
          connection acts like an ordinary router: IP packets destined to a remote site are
          routed to the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server configured with the site-to-site
          connection, and are then transparently routed through the Internet to the other company
          site.
        </p>

        <p>
          The configuration steps for a site-to-site connection are as follows (we cover these steps
          in detail below):    
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Determine network configuration
          </li>
          <li>
            Determine <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server addresses
          </li>
          <li>
            Configure site-to-site responder endpoint
          </li>
          <li>
            Configure site-to-site initiator endpoint
          </li>
          <li>
            Make routing changes to your other devices
          </li>
          <li>
            Verify the site-to-site connection
          </li>
          <li>
            Verify site-to-site routing
          </li>
        </ul>

        <div class="cb-note">
          <p>
            Setting up site-to-site VPN connections involves many devices: the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
            servers, firewalls, routers, and intranet computers at each site.  Typical problems in configuring
            site-to-site connections are routing and firewall related, so follow the configuration steps carefully.
            Incorrect routing typically results in lack of end-to-end connectivity even though the site-to-site VPN
            connection itself is working correctly.
          </p>
        </div>
      </div> <!-- overview -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Configuration Steps</h1>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Determine Network Configuration</h1>

          <p>
            Design your desired network configuration beforehand.
            In particular, you need to determine which IP subnets are used
            in the site-to-site endpoints.  This information is required to configure IP routing
            correctly, so that each site-to-site connection endpoint knows which packets to send
            over the site-to-site VPN connection.
          </p>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Determine <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Server Addresses</h1>

          <p>
            Determine whether <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> servers have a public or a private address
            (port forwarding) and if either address is dynamic and requires dynamic DNS configuration.
            This information is required to decide which endpoint will initiate a connection, while the
            other endpoint will only respond to connections.
          </p>

          <p>
            A <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> site-to-site VPN connection is always initiated by one
            peer while the other peer is a passive responder.  This has no impact on the actual site-to-site
            connection: the connection is fully symmetric regardless of the direction in which the connection
            is initiated.
          </p>

          <p>
            A peer can act as an initiator if the responding peer is reachable by the initiating peer.  This is
            usually the case if: (1) the responding peer has a public IP address, or (2) the responding peer has
            a private IP address but port forwarding has been configured.  In some cases operator firewalls may
            prevent incoming connections to the responding peer even when the peer has a public IP address.
            If the responding peer has a dynamic address, configure dynamic DNS for the peer and use the dynamic
            DNS address when configuring the initiator.
            Note that the initiating peer may itself be behind a NAT device or be otherwise unreachable from the
            Internet.  Even in such cases the formed site-to-site connection is fully symmetric.
          </p>

          <p>
            If neither peer can act as an initiator, the site-to-site connection cannot be configured.
            If both peers can act as an initiator, it doesn't matter which one is configured as the initiator.
          </p>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Configure Site-to-Site Responder Endpoint</h1>

          <p>
            Configure the responding <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server first, defining a username and
            a password for this site-to-site connection.  The IP subnets of the initiating end need to be defined
            for the responding endpoint so that traffic can be routed correctly.  If the responding server has a
            dynamic (but public) IP address, you should configure dynamic DNS updating.
          </p>

          <p>
            Check that your product license allows site-to-site connections.
          </p>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Configure Site-to-Site Initiator Endpoint</h1>

          <p>
            Configure the initiating <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server, using the same username and
            password as configured into the responding endpoint.  The pre-shared key of the responding endpoint
            also needs to be defined, you can find this pre-shared key from the network configuration page of the
            responding server; the pre-shared key is the same one used for normal VPN users.  The IP subnets of the
            responding end need to be defined for the initiating endpoint so that traffic can be routed correctly.
          </p>

          <p>
            Check that your product license allows site-to-site connections.
          </p>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Make Routing Changes to Your Other Devices</h1>

          <p>
            Because the IP topology has changed, some routing changes are usually needed.  In short, you need
            to ensure that packets sent by computers in the initiating server's network to the responding server's
            network are routed to the initiating <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server and vice versa.  If this
            is not the case, the site-to-site connection will be formed but connections will fail silently because
            of incorrect routing.
          </p>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Verify the Site-to-Site Connection</h1>

          <p>
            Ensure that both endpoints report the site-to-site connection as being up in their status overview
            page.  If not, check site-to-site username, password, and pre-shared key settings in
            both endpoints.  Also check that addresses have been entered correctly and your firewall does not
            prevent the connection from being formed.
          </p>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Verify Site-to-Site Routing</h1>

          <p>
            Ensure that packets are routed correctly between IP subnets of each endpoint.  For instance, you
            may use the 'ping' command to check connectivity between pairs of computers. 
            This is a critical step because routing configuration issues are the typical cause of
            site-to-site connectivity problems.
          </p>
        </div>
      </div> <!-- configuration steps -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Troubleshooting</h1>

        <p>
          Troubleshooting site-to-site connectivity issues can be time consuming because failures are often
          silent in nature: the site-to-site connection appears to be up, but connectivity nevertheless fails
          for some reason.
        </p>

        <p>
          The quickest approach is to check settings first, and then employ a network traffic analyzer,
          such as the free <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.wireshark.org/">Wireshark</a> tool
          (formerly known as Ethereal) to quickly isolate the problem.  More detailed troubleshooting instructions
          are given below.
        </p>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Site-to-Site Connection Does Not Come Up</h1>

          <p>
            This problem is typically relatively easy to diagnose and fix.  First, review the configuration steps
            above.  In particular, ensure that the site-to-site connection username, password, and pre-shared key
            have been entered correctly.  Remember that the initiating peer uses the pre-shared key configured in the
            responding peer's network configuration page.
          </p>

          <p>
            If all settings look correct, something is preventing the IPsec protocol from establishing a secure
            connection between the two sites.  Check the following:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>Check that your firewall is not blocking IPsec traffic, in particular
                UDP ports 500 and 4500 must be allowed (these are used by the Internet Key Exchange protocol,
                a part of IPsec standard).</li>
            <li>Some Internet operators block or treat IPsec packets in incompatible ways.  Please check with
                your operator that they do not prevent IPsec connections at either end.</li>
            <li>If you use NAT and/or port forwarding for <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> connections,
                check that the NAT and port forwarding settings are correct.  Note that if port forwarding is
                used, the port forwarded site must be configured as the responding peer, otherwise the site-to-site
                connection cannot be formed.</li>
          </ul>

          <div class="cb-note">
            <p>
              Note that it may take a few minutes for a site-to-site connection to be established.  The initiating
              peer will retry a site-to-site connection roughly every two minutes.  To speed up the process, configure
              the responding side first, and the initiating side afterwards.  This ensures that the first site-to-site
              connection attempt is successful.
            </p>
          </div>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Site-to-Site Connection Comes Up But Connectivity Fails</h1>

          <p>
            This is the most common problem when configuring site-to-site connections: the site-to-site connection
            itself is shown to be up in the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> web interface, but traffic still
            cannot be sent between the sites.  The cause is very often incorrectly configured routing.
          </p>

          <p>
            Check the following:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              Ensure that you have correctly identified the IP subnets at each site, and that the subnets have been
              correctly configured into each site-to-site endpoint.  Remember that you need to enter the IP subnets
              of the responding site to the initiating side's configuration, and vice versa.
            </li>
            <li>
              For each site, ensure that routes for other devices (other than <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
              servers) are configured correctly.  You need to ensure that packets sent from one site to the IP subnets
              of the other site are routed to the local <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server.  How this is done
              depends on your network configuration.
            </li>   
            <li>
              Check the firewall and access control settings on the source and destination computers, ensuring that
              they allow communication with IP addresses involved in the attempted connection.  Sometimes servers may
              be configured with access control allowing connections only from the local IP subnet.  In this case
              connections from the remote site may be rejected, unless the NAT option is used in the local
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server.
            </li>
            <li>
              If you receive ICMP "time to live exceeded" packets in response to e.g. ping (ICMP echo) packets,
              a routing loop is most likely causing connectivity problems.  The routing loop may be caused by
              incorrect subnet specifications in site-to-site configurations.  In particular, one site-to-site
              connection endpoint routes a packet to a remote endpoint, but the remote endpoint does not actually
              provide routing for that subnet, and sends the packet back through the same or another site-to-site
              connection, possibly resulting in a routing loop.
              If this is the case, recheck subnet definitions for site-to-site connections at each
              end of every site-to-site connection.
            </li>
            <li>
              Check that your product license allows site-to-site connections at each site-to-site endpoint.
            </li>
          </ul>

          <p>
            If you cannot resolve the problem using the instructions above, please follow the detailed
            instructions on how to "retrace" the site-to-site connection data flow below.  We recommend
            that you use a network traffic analyzer, such as
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.wireshark.org/">Wireshark</a> to
            make diagnosis as quick as possible.
          </p>
        </div>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Retracing Site-to-Site Connection Data Flow</h1>

          <p>
            In case you cannot resolve the problem by the suggestions above, you can diagnose the problem further
            by "retracing" the data flow.  To do this, decide which test connection you will use for testing first;
            you may use ping (ICMP Echo Request) or a HTTP web server connection, for instance.  Regardless, a network connection
            is attempted by a computer (computer A) at one site (site A) to a computer (computer B) at another site (site B).
            A connection initiation packet is routed
            from site A to site B (through the site-to-site connection) and a response packet is routed back from
            site B to site A.
          </p>

          <p>
            To diagnose a site-to-site connection problem in detail, we need to determine which
            part of the round trip between computers A and B fails first, as follows:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              Computer A to <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site A:
              <ul>
                <li>
                  The IP packet sent by computer A with destination address set to computer B should be routed to
                  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site A.  If the site-to-site connection is up,
                  you can verify this step quite reliably by looking at the detailed status of the site-to-site
                  connection in question, and ensuring that the transfer (TX) counter increases for the site-to-site
                  connection with every connection attempt.  If so, it is quite likely that IP packets are routed
                  from computer A to the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server.
                  Note that counters are updated with a delay of about one minute.
                </li>
                <li>
                  In the simplest case the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server is used as the default gateway
                  and this step should be automatically OK.
                </li>
                <li>
                  If a separate default gateway is used, that gateway should have routing configured so that every
                  subnet of the responding site is configured with the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server as the
                  gateway.
                </li>
                <li>
                  If computer A should send packets intended for remote sites directly to the
                  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server, each computer (such as computer A) in the site needs to be configured
                  with appropriate routes.  This network configuration is not recommended because it requires
                  many route configurations and is thus error prone.
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site A to <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site B:
              <ul>
                <li>
                  The IP packet with source address set to computer A and destination address set to computer B
                  should be routed from one <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server to the other.  If the
                  site-to-site connection is up, this is the case if the site-to-site connection has correct
                  routing configuration.  You can verify this step by verifying that as the transfer (TX) counter
                  of the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site A increases, the corresponding
                  receive (RX) counter of the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site B also increases.
                  Note that counters are updated with a delay of about one minute.
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site B to computer B:
              <ul>
                <li>
                  This step typically works because computer B typically has an address reachable from the
                  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site B.  However, there are two complications.
                  First, the source address of the IP packet may either be computer A (if the NAT option is not used)
                  or <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> at site B (if the NAT option is used).  Second, computer B
                  may have a firewall blocking access from whichever source address is present in the IP packet.
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              Computer B to <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site B:
              <ul>
                <li>
                  This is similar to routing a packet from computer A to the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at
                  site A.  However, if the NAT option is used in the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site B,
                  the destination address of this response IP packet is the address of the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
                  server at site B, sometimes simplifying routing.
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site B to <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site A:
              <ul>
                <li>
                  This is similar to routing a packet from the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site A to the
                  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site B.  You can verify this step by ensuring that the
                  transfer (TX) counter of the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site B increases, and that
                  the receive (RX) counter of the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server site A also increases.
                  Note that counters are updated with a delay of about one minute.
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site A to computer A:
              <ul>
                <li>
                  This step typically works because computer A typically has an address reachable from the
                  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server at site A.  However, check that an intervening
                  firewall or a built-in firewall of computer A is not blocking the response.
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
          </ul>

          <p>
            Using a network traffic analyzer, such as the free
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.wireshark.org/">Wireshark</a> tool
            (formerly known as Ethereal) is recommended as it makes it much quicker to isolate the problem.
          </p>
        </div>

      </div> <!-- troubleshooting -->


    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
