<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle">Virtualization Products</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Overview</h1>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">What Is Virtualization?</h1>

          <p>
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtualization">Virtualization</a>
            products allow sharing the resources of one physical computer with multiple
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_machine">virtual machines</a>.
            Each virtual machine resembles a physical computer but consumes only a fraction of the
            physical computer's resources.  The resources used by the virtual machine
            are provided by the host computer.  Virtualization
            allows you to run multiple different products and operating systems on
            the same hardware.  For instance, the host computer may run Windows
            Server 2003 while virtual machines (also known as guests) may run
            Linux, Windows XP, and other operating systems, without any compatibility
            issues.
          </p>

          <p>
            With virtualization, you can even overcome differences between processor
            architectures.  For instance, <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> can 
            be installed on PowerPC-based Mac OS X computers, even though
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> itself requires an Intel/AMD x86
            processor.
          </p>

          <p>
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> supports all major virtualization
            products.  You can install <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> on an
            existing server computer by first installing a supported virtualization
            product and then installing <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> into
            a virtual machine.  This saves money and resources, and further hides the
            host hardware from <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />, allowing you to
            use hardware and network configurations not directly supported by
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />.
          </p>
        </div> <!-- what is virtualization? -->

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Supported Virtualization Products</h1>

          <p>
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> supports the following virtualization products:
          </p>

          <ul>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.vmware.com/products/server/">VMware Server</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.vmware.com/products/vi/esx/">VMware ESX Server</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.vmware.com/products/ws/">VMware Workstation</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserversystem/virtualserver/default.mspx">Microsoft Virtual Server</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.microsoft.com/windows/virtualpc/default.mspx">Microsoft Virtual PC</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://technet2.microsoft.com/windowsserver2008/en/servermanager/virtualization.mspx">Microsoft Hyper-V</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel-based_Virtual_Machine">KVM</a> (free)</li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.parallels.com/en/products/workstation/">Parallels Workstation</a></li>
            <li><a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.parallels.com/en/products/desktop/">Parallels Desktop</a></li>
          </ul>
        </div> <!-- supported virtualization products -->

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Other Virtualization Products</h1>

          <p>
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> should work correctly in all
            <strong class="cb-bold">full virtualization systems</strong>,
            which provide virtual PC hardware (32-bit x86 processor) to the virtual machine. 
            Such systems include
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://fabrice.bellard.free.fr/qemu/">Qemu</a> and
            <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/research/srg/netos/xen/">Xen</a>
            in full virtualization mode.
            However, <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> does not support
            installation into these alternative systems, and functionality cannot 
            be guaranteed.
          </p>
        </div> <!-- other virtualization products -->
      </div> <!-- virtualization overview -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Installing <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Using Virtualization Products</h1>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Common Requirements</h1>

          <ul>
          <li>Virtual hard disk of at least 2 GB (about 1.86 GiB)</li>
          <li>256 MiB of memory for virtual machine (512 MiB recommended)</li>
          <li>One or two virtual network interfaces (Ethernet)</li>
          </ul>

          <p>
            Installing <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server on virtualization products is very similar
            to installing onto physical hardware.  There are product specific variations on how virtual machines
            are created, started, and configured for server use (automatic starting on host startup, and so on).
            Please refer to your virtualization product manuals for more information.  Instructions for VMware Server
            and KVM are described below as illustrations.
            Also see <a href="#post-installation-steps">Common Post-Installation Steps</a> below.
          </p>

          <p>
            A prepackaged virtual appliance is available for VMware on the
            <a href="download-home.html"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Download</a> page.
            No product installation is necessary when using a virtual appliance: simply unpack the
            appliance files, review virtual machine configuration, and take the virtual machine into use.
          </p>
        </div> <!-- common requirements -->

        <div class="cb-section">
          <a name="post-installation-steps" />

          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Common Post-Installation Steps</h1>

          <p>
            After configuring the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server, 
            you should perform the following steps to ensure that the product performs as reliably
            and securely as possible.
          </p>

          <ul>
            <li><strong class="cb-bold">Virtual machine boot order</strong>:
                Check that the virtual machine starts into <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
                when the virtual machine is rebooted.  In particular, check that there is no
                virtual CD/DVD image in the virtual machine CD/DVD drive.  Alternatively,
                change virtual machine boot order to prefer booting from hard disk instead
                of CD/DVD.</li>
            <li><strong class="cb-bold">Virtual machine autostart on host reboot</strong>:
                If available in the virtualization product, ensure that the virtual machine
                starts automatically when the host reboots.  This is important for instance
                with power outages, to ensure that remote access service is automatically
                restarted after the host computer reboot.</li>
            <li><strong class="cb-bold">Take a backup or a snapshot of the virtual machine</strong>:
                Power off the virtual machine and take a backup of the virtual machine
                directory.  Some virtualization products also provide a snapshot capability,
                which can be used instead.  A backup or a snapshot allows you to roll back to
                an earlier configuration in case of a problem with the product (a
                configuration error, accidental deletion of user accounts, etc).</li>
            <li><strong class="cb-bold">Host computer automatic reboot</strong>:
                Because most operating systems have trouble performing reliably over extended
                periods (months), it is recommended to set up an automatic reboot schedule for
                the host computer.  For instance, the host computer could be configured to
                reboot once a week or once a month.  This minimizes risk of host computer
                related remote access service disruptions.  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
                will automatically reboot the virtual machine periodically to minimize
                disruptions caused by the virtual machine.</li>
            <li><strong class="cb-bold">Host computer network configuration</strong>:
                The host computer should not have a configured IP address in order to
                minimize risks of host computer intrusion. If the host computer needs to have an IP address
                (which is quite typical), host computer firewall settings should be carefully configured and
                the remote access should be reachable only
                through a firewall port forwarding function.</li>       
            <li><strong class="cb-bold">Host computer power management</strong>:
                Check host computer BIOS and operating system power management settings.
                The host computer should never power off, despite lack of any activity.</li>
            <li><strong class="cb-bold">Host computer screensaver</strong>:
                Check host computer screensaver settings.  The preferred screensaver is
                a simple black screen to minimize performance impact of the screensaver.
            </li>
            <li><strong class="cb-bold">Host computer RAID settings</strong>:
                If your host computer uses RAID disk array, check that RAID settings are
                correct.  In particular, check that the host computer alarms you somehow
                if integrity of the RAID configuration is threatened by a failing disk.</li>
            <li><strong class="cb-bold">Host computer UPS settings</strong>:
                If your host computer is connected to a UPS, check that the UPS settings
                are correct.  Check that UPS alarms are delivered to you using e.g. email,
                and simulate a power failure to ensure that the alarms are actually
                delivered.</li>
          </ul>
        </div> <!-- post-installation steps -->

        <div class="cb-section">
          <a name="known-limitations" />

          <hr class="cb-section" />
          <h1 class="cb-heading">Known Limitations</h1>

          <p>
            Virtual machines running <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> should not be suspended.
            Suspend/resume causes a large time synchronization discrepancy which disrupts VPN service.  Please
            shut down virtual machines instead of suspending them.
          </p>

        </div> <!-- known limitations -->

      </div> <!-- installing on a virtualization product -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">VMware (Workstation, Server, ESX Server)</h1>

        <p>
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.vmware.com/">VMware</a> has several different virtualization
          products intended to a wide range of users; from desktop to data center use.
          They also provide free products, such as VMware Server and VMware Player.
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> works best with
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.vmware.com/products/server/">VMware Server</a> and
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.vmware.com/products/vi/esx/">VMware ESX Server</a>.
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> can be used with other VMware products as well, but they may
          be less ideal environments.  For instance,
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.vmware.com/products/ws/">VMware Workstation</a>
          does not provide
          an easy and reliable way to start virtual machines automatically when the host
          computer boots up, which is important for a network service like
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />.
        </p>

        <p>
          To install <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> using VMware Server, do as follows
          (these steps are for Linux version of VMware Server, but are very similar to the
          Windows version; ESX Server installation is slightly different but the same parameters
          apply):
        </p>

        <ul>
          <li>
            Create virtual machine
            <ul>
              <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">File -> New -> Virtual Machine</strong>.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Custom</strong>.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Guest Operating System</strong> value
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">2. Linux</strong>, and select
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Ubuntu</strong> from the
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Version</strong> dropdown menu.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Select an appropriate name for the virtual machine
                  (e.g. <strong class="cb-userinput"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Server</strong>),
                  and check the storage location for virtual machine files.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Select number of processors as <strong class="cb-guilabel">One</strong>.
                  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> supports multiprocessor environments,
                  but in typical cases the extra performance is not necessary.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>In some VMware products you will be asked whether the new virtual
                  machine should be made private (visible only to VMware user creating the virtual machine) or not.
                  Select whichever is more appropriate for you.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Specify memory size of <strong class="cb-userinput">512 MB</strong> (recommended).
                  256 MB is the minimum supported by <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network Connection</strong> value
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Use bridged networking</strong>.
                  This connects your virtual machine directly to the local Ethernet network.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">I/O Adapter Types</strong> value
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">SCSI adapter</strong> /
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">LSI Logic</strong>.  In general the default
                  selection is best.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Create a new virtual disk</strong>.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Virtual Disk Type</strong> value
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">SCSI (Recommended)</strong>.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Specify size for new virtual disk as
                  <strong class="cb-userinput">2.0</strong> (GB).
                  Check the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Allocate all disk space now</strong> and
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Split disk into 2GB files</strong> checkboxes.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.</li>
              <li>Select a name for the virtual disk file.  The default is typically OK.
                  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Finish</strong>.</li>
              <li>VMware will now create the virtual disk file, which should take about one
                  minute.  When complete, VMware will return you to the main administration window.</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          
          <li>
            Finalize configuration and configure bootup from <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Live CD
            <ul>
              <li>Open virtual machine settings window by clicking
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Edit virtual machine settings</strong>.</li>
              <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Options</strong> tab.
                <ul>
                  <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Power</strong> and check the
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Power on after opening the virtual machine</strong> and
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Close after powering off or suspending</strong> checkboxes.</li>
                  <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Snapshot</strong> and check the
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Disable snapshots</strong> checkbox.</li>
                  <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Startup/Shutdown</strong>, select the
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Power on virtual machine</strong> under the label
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">On host startup</strong>, and
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">Shut down guest operating system</strong> under the label
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">On host shutdown</strong>.</li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Hardware</strong> tab.
                <ul>
                  <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">CD-ROM 1 (IDE 1:0)</strong> (or similar).
                      Check the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Connect at power on</strong> checkbox.
                      Select the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Use ISO image:</strong> option,
                      and click the file browsing icon to locate the
                      <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Live CD ISO image file.</li>
                  <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Floppy 1</strong> (or similar), and click
                      <strong class="cb-guilabel">Remove</strong> to remove the unnecessary floppy device.</li>
                  <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Ethernet 1</strong> (or similar).
                      Ensure that <strong class="cb-guilabel">Connect at power on</strong> checkbox is
                      checked, and that the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Bridged: Connected directly to
                      to the physical network</strong> option is selected.</li>
                  <li>If you wish to use a configuration with two network interfaces
                      (see <a href="server-requirements.html">Server Requirements</a>),
                      click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Add...</strong>.  Select
                      <strong class="cb-guilabel">Ethernet Adapter</strong> from the
                      <strong class="cb-guilabel">Hardware Types</strong> list and click
                      <strong class="cb-guilabel">Next</strong>.
                      Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Bridged: Connected directly to the physical network</strong>
                      option for <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network Connection</strong>, ensure that
                      the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Connect at power on</strong> checkbox is checked, and click
                      <strong class="cb-guilabel">Finish</strong>.
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">OK</strong> to close the Virtual Machine Settings
                  window.</li>
            </ul>
          </li>

          <li>
            Boot from <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Live CD and install <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server
            <ul>
              <li>Start the new virtual machine by clicking the green "play" icon (<strong class="cb-guilabel">Power On</strong>).</li>
              <li>Enter the BIOS setup menu of the virtual machine: get virtual machine focus
                  by clicking on the virtual machine display area, and press
                  <strong class="cb-keycap">F2</strong> when instructed by the BIOS.  The BIOS menu
                  should appear.</li>
              <li>Navigate to the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Boot</strong> menu by pressing the
                  right arrow key multiple times.  Navigate the list of boot devices using the
                  down arrow key until the <strong class="cb-guilabel">CD-ROM Drive</strong> text is
                  active.  Press the plus key (on the keypad) until the
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">CD-ROM Drive</strong> is first in the boot list.</li>
              <li>Navigate to the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Exit</strong> menu by pressing the
                  right arrow key.  Ensure that <strong class="cb-guilabel">Exit Saving Changes</strong>
                  is selected and press <strong class="cb-keycap">Enter</strong>.  Confirm the
                  save operation by selecting <strong class="cb-guilabel">Yes</strong> and press
                  <strong class="cb-keycap">Enter</strong>.</li>
              <li>The Live CD should now boot in the virtual machine.  The remaining installation
                  steps are the same as in a normal installation.  Select the
                  virtual hard disk as the installation target.  Remember to eject the CD-ROM or
                  disable the CD drive of the virtual machine before initial configuration, so that
                  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> boots correctly from the hard disk after
                  installation.
                  For more information, 
                  see <a href="server-installation.html">Server Installation</a>.</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Finalize installation
            <ul>
              <li>Disable boot from the Live CD as follows.
                  In the main VMware screen click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Edit virtual machine settings</strong>.
                  Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">CD-ROM (IDE 1:0)</strong> (or similar), 
                  and clear the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Connect at power on</strong> checkbox.
                  Close the settings window by clicking
                  <strong class="cb-guilabel">OK</strong>.</li>
              <li>Check the Common Post-Installation Steps above.</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      
      </div> <!-- vmware -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">KVM</h1>

        <p>
          <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel-based_Virtual_Machine">KVM (Kernel-based Virtual Machine)</a>
          is a free, high quality virtualization technology built directly into modern Linux platforms.
          KVM provides high performance through hardware assisted virtualization.  It thus requires a
          relatively modern PC with either Intel VT-x or AMD-V (also known as AMD Pacifica) processor virtualization technology
          for maximum performance.
          We suggest that you use a reliable and stable Linux distribution for deploying KVM.  For instance,
          the <a href="http://www.ubuntu.com/server" class="cb-external" target="_blank">Ubuntu Server</a> is a good free platform for this purpose.
        </p>

        <p>
          KVM management is command line based, which allows ordinary Linux scripts to be used for e.g. startup.
	  An alternative solution is to use some GUI wrappers for KVM such as
          <a href="http://virt-manager.et.redhat.com/" class="cb-external" target="_blank">virt-manager</a>.
          The following instructions assume that the host has X server configured.  Installation without X server
          is similar, except that remote VNC connections are used throughout the installation.
        </p>

        <p>
          To install <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> on KVM, do as follows:
        </p>

        <ul>
          <li>
            Login with proper permissions (e.g. as root).  Read the KVM manual pages for an overview of KVM and its options.
<pre>
$ man kvm
$ man kvm-qemu   # may vary depending on distribution
</pre>
          </li>
          <li>
            Create a virtual machine
            <ul>
              <li>
                Create a directory for the virtual machine:
<pre>
$ mkdir /&lt;path&gt;/kvm/vpnease
$ cd /&lt;path&gt;/kvm/vpnease
</pre>
              </li>
              <li>
                Create a virtual disk for the virtual machine:
<pre>
# in the virtual machine directory
$ dd if=/dev/zero of=disk.bin bs=1M count=4096  # 4 GiB
</pre>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            VPNease installation
            <ul>
              <li>
                If necessary in your distribution, start KVM kernel modules:
<pre>
$ modprobe kvm        # for both AMD and Intel
$ modprobe kvm-amd    # for AMD
$ modprobe kvm-intel  # for Intel
</pre>
              </li>
              <li>
                Start the installer:
<pre>
$ kvm -hda disk.bin \
      -cdrom vpnease_&lt;version&gt;.iso \
      -boot d \
      -std-vga \
      -net nic,vlan=0,model=rtl8139 \
      -net tap,vlan=0,ifname=vpnease0
</pre>                
              </li>
              <li>
                You should configure network connectivity for the virtual machine at this point.
                The virtual machine will have a virtual eth0 Ethernet device, which will send and
                receive packets from the host vpnease0 (or whatever name was given above) TAP device.
                <ul>
                  <li>
                    The simplest approach is to configure a static address from a virtual subnet
                    for the virtual machine, and assign the host TAP device an address from the same virtual 
                    subnet.  Then, allow routing  with NAT (MASQUERADE or SNAT) from the TAP device to the external network.
                    Finally, add port forwarding for UDP ports 500 and 4500 (IPsec) and TCP ports 80 and 443
                    (web UI) from the external network to the virtual machine.
                  </li>
                  <li>
                    Several other configurations are possible.  For instance, KVM supports a bridged connection
                    mode.  See KVM documentation for more information on network configuration alternatives.
                    Note that the KVM "user" networking mode is not recommended because of its limitations.
                  </li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>
                Install <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> normally, see
                <a href="server-installation.html">Server Installation</a>.
                Once installation is complete, power off the virtual machine.
              </li>
              <li>
                To perform initial configuration, start KVM again with the following options
                (the difference to the previous options is that booting happens from the hard
                disk rather than the CD drive):
<pre>
$ kvm -hda disk.bin \
      -boot c \
      -std-vga \
      -net nic,vlan=0,model=rtl8139 \
      -net tap,vlan=0,ifname=vpnease0
</pre>                
              </li>
              <li>
                When initial configuration is done, ensure that the virtual machine gets a demo license.  This indicates
                that networking functions at the basic level.  You can also test client connections
                at this point.  Once done, shutdown the product from the web UI and exit KVM.
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Configure automatic startup for the server:
            <ul>
              <li>
                The KVM command line above is suitable for starting up the KVM virtual machine
                from e.g. /etc/rcN.d/ startup scripts, except that a different graphics device
                needs to be used.  The following command line starts up the KVM virtual machine
                as above, but with VNC graphics suitable for startup from system scripts even
                without X being installed on the host (you can change the VNC display number to
                whatever you wish to use):
<pre>
$ kvm -hda disk.bin \
      -boot c \
      -std-vga \
      -vnc :1 \
      -net nic,vlan=0,model=rtl8139 \
      -net tap,vlan=0,ifname=vpnease0
</pre>                
              </li>
              <li>
                You should place a startup script in your system startup (consult your Linux
                distribution for specifics), which (1) probes the KVM kernel modules if necessary
                (see above); (2) starts up the KVM virtual machine e.g. as above; and (3) sets up
                the host networking correctly for the virtual machine.  For the last step, you can
                use KVM interface scripts, or simply write your custom scripts.
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Test your setup
            <ul>
              <li>
                Reboot the host computer.
              </li>
              <li>
                Once the system is up and running, launch a VNC viewer to connect to the virtual
                machine graphics display:
<pre>
# this varies per distribution
$ vncviewer :1.0
$ tightvncviewer :1.0
$ xvncviewer :1.0
$ xtightvncviewer :1.0
</pre>                
              </li>
              <li>
                If everything has been set up correctly, you will see the
                <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> web UI.  Ensure that
                <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server gets an IP address,
                and that connection to the license server is up: this indicates
                that networking functions correctly.
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>

      <p>
        QEMU is a virtualization platform almost identical to KVM, but it does
        not require hardware virtualization support (Intel VT-x or AMD Pacifica).
        However, it is considerably slower and thus not recommended.
      </p>
  
      </div> <!-- kvm and qemu -->

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>

