<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="head" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <h2 class="step-heading">Using the VPN connection</h2>

        <p>
          You can open VPN connection from top right hand corner VPN menu:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Connect</strong> from the VPN menu.</li>
          <li>If you have not save your <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> password, a password dialog opens.</li>
          <li>Enter your <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> password and accept by clicking <strong class="cb-guilabel">OK</strong>.</li>
          <li>
            Ensure that connectivity to your company network resources works correctly by e.g. using your
            e-mail client or opening a web page from an intranet server.
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>
          You can disconnect the VPN connection by selecting <strong class="cb-guilabel">Disconnect</strong> 
          from the top right hand corner VPN menu.  
        </p>
        
        <h2 class="step-heading">VPN on Demand</h2>

        <p>
          Mac OS X 10.5 (Leopard) supports VPN on Demand, which automatically dials up the VPN connection
          when you access a network resource in your company network.  To enable VPN on Demand, do as follows:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Open <strong class="cb-guilabel">System Preferences</strong> and click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network</strong>.
            Select the VPN service (<strong class="cb-guilabel">VPN (L2TP)</strong>) from the service menu on the left.
            Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Advanced</strong> and select the
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">VPN on Demand</strong> tab.
          </li>
          <li>
            Enter all domain names which need this VPN connection to be accessed,
            i.e. all relevant intranet services.  For each domain name, click
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">+</strong> (plus sign), enter the domain name into the
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Domain</strong> field, and select the name of your VPN
            connection profile from the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Configuration</strong> dropdown.
            Each domain name is interpreted as a "wildcard" suffix; for instance, if you enter
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">intra.example.com</strong>, all sub-domains are automatically
            included (e.g. <strong class="cb-guilabel">server.intra.example.com</strong>).
            Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">OK</strong> when you have finished adding all intranet
            addresses.
          </li>
          <li>
            Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Apply</strong> and close the Network window.
            Open a browser window, and enter a URI to one of the intranet
            resources to the browser address bar.  The VPN connection should now be automatically
            connected (you may be prompted for a password), and the intranet resource opened in your
            browser.  The browser may confirm changes to your keychains, which you must allow.
          </li>
        </ul>

        <div class="cb-note">
          <p>
            If a configured domain name is accessible directly (without the VPN), the VPN is not dialed.
            This allows you to connect your computer to the intranet directly, without causing an unnecessary
            VPN connection to be opened.
          </p>
        </div>

        <h2 class="step-heading">Known limitations</h2>
        <ul>
          <li>
            When switching from one user to another, the VPN connection is automatically
            dropped by the operating system for security reasons.  This behavior can be
            changed from VPN profile Advanced settings.
          </li>
        </ul>

<n:invisible n:render="form user_information_form" />

      </div>
    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
