<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> Download</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> is available for a 30 day free trial period
          without registration, which allows you to test the product without risk or inconvenience.
          Setting up and testing <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> takes about 45 minutes:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <a href="latest-version.html">Download</a> the latest <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server
            ISO image and burn it to a CD or DVD.
          </li>
          <li>
            <a href="quick-installation-guide.html">Install and setup</a>
            the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server to a dedicated PC with the
            following minimum requirements: 1 GHz CPU, 256 MB RAM, and 2 GB hard disk.
            Installation and setup takes about 30 minutes.
          </li>
          <li>
            <a href="client-configuration.html">Configure the VPN client</a>
            built into the operating system of your laptop or desktop PC - no software installation required.
            This step takes a few minutes.
          </li>
          <li>
            Use the VPN connection to access all your company resources securely from anywhere on the Internet.
          </li>
        </ul>

        <p>
          You can also <a href="test-servers.html">test a built-in VPN client</a> without installing
          a <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server in less than 5 minutes.
          If you're familiar with VMware, you can download and try the pre-installed VMware appliance
          version of <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server.
          See <a href="virtualization-products.html">supported virtualization products</a> for more information.
        </p>

        <p>
          Once satisfied with the free trial, you can <a href="buy-license.html">buy a license</a>
          conveniently over the Internet.
        </p>
      </div>
    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
