.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (c) 2004 Katalix Systems Ltd.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by Katalix Systems Ltd instead of in
the original English.
..
.\"
.\" MAN PAGE COMMENTS to openl2tp-docs@lists.sourceforge.net
.\"
.TH ippoold 8 "12 September 2004" "IpPool" "IpPool Manual"
.PD
.SH NAME
ippoold \- IP Pool daemon
.PD
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B ippoold [\-f] [\-R] [\-d] [\-L log-facility]
.ad b
.hy 1
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B ippoold
maintains one or more static IP address pools.
.PP
Each address pool is given a unique name by the administrator.
Applications allocate addresses from a named pool and free addresses
back to a named pool when they are no longer needed. Each pool is
completely separate; one pool's addresses may overlap anothers.
.PP
Individual IP address pools may contain any number of contiguous address
blocks. Individual addresses within those address blocks may
be reserved by an administrator to handle cases where some addresses
are manually assigned. Address blocks may be added or removed from 
a pool as required, even when the pool is in use.
.PP
.B ippoold
does not require allocated addresses to be periodically refreshed like
DHCP does. An application that allocates addresses must always return
them to the pool when it is finished. Failure to do so is a bug and will
result in IP address leaks.
.PP
.B ippoold
is intended for use by any application that needs IP addresses for
temporary use. It was originally written for the
.B OpenL2TP
project but was repackaged as a separate application so that it could 
be used by other applications. A pppd plugin is provided, enabling a 
PPP server to allocate addresses from a pool.
.PD
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-d
Enable debug messages.
.TP
.B \-f
Run in the foreground. By default,
.B ippoold
forks itself and runs in the background. For debugging, it is
sometimes useful to run the application in the foreground. Note that
when run in the foreground, any trace messages are sent to the
controlling terminal rather than to syslog.
.TP
.B \-L \fIlog-facility\fP
By default,
.B ippoold
logs messages to the LOG_DAEMON syslog facility. This option may be used
to log messages to one of the localN facilities instead (local0..local7)
so that the logged messages can be directed via syslog configuration
to a separate file or syslog server. See 
.BR syslog.conf ( 5 )
for how to configure syslog.
.TP
.B \-R
Enables remote management. 
.B ippoold
is controlled using Sun RPC requests. Sun RPC requests may be sent
over a network so a control application implementing the
.B IpPool
RPC API documented in
.BR ippool_rpc ( 4 )
may control
.B ippoold
remotely. In most environments, remote configuration isn't useful so
is disabled by default. However, in closed cluster or chassis systems
where IP addresses are needed by applications running on different
CPUs, the ability to control
.B ippoold
over a network using RPC is extremely useful.
.PD
.SH CONFIGURATION
There are no configuration files! All configuration is done using an
application supporting the
RPC interface documented in 
.BR ippool_rpc ( 4 ).
One such application is 
.BR ippoolconfig ( 1 )
which provides an intuitive command line interface.
.PP
Since
.B ippoold
is managed by Sun RPC which is available in most commercial operating systems
including Microsoft Windows, Sun Solaris and even embedded RTOS such
as WindRiver's VxWorks, custom management applications may be developed
to control 
.BR ippoold .
.PD
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs to <openl2tp-bugs@lists.sourceforge.net>.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR ippoolconfig ( 1 ),
.BR ippool_rpc ( 4 )
