.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (c) 2004 Katalix Systems Ltd.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by Katalix Systems Ltd instead of in
the original English.
..
.\"
.\" MAN PAGE COMMENTS to openl2tp-docs@lists.sourceforge.net
.\"
.TH ippoolconfig 1 "12 September 2004" "IpPool" "IpPool Manual"
.PD
.SH NAME
ippoolconfig \- command-line configuration for ippoold
.PD
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B ippoolconfig [\-q] [\-R \<ipaddr\>] [command]
.ad b
.hy 1
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ippoolconfig
is a command line application for managing
.BR ippoold ( 8 ),
an IP address pool daemon.
.PP
.B ippoold
is controlled using a Remote Procedure Call (RPC) interface documented
in
.BR ippool_rpc ( 4 ). 
.BR ippoolconfig
is an RPC client application implementing this interface.
.PP
.B ippoold
was originally written for the
.B OpenL2TP
project but was repackaged as a separate application so that it could 
be used by other applications. 
.PD
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-q
Quiet mode. Suppresses information messages, such as \fI"Created xyz"\fP.
.TP
.B \-R \fIipaddr\fP
Send commands to 
.B ippoold
running at \fIipaddr\fP rather than to the local host. Remote management
must be enabled for
.B ippoold
at the remote host for this option to work. \fIipaddr\fP may be
specified as an IP address or a hostname.
.TP
.B \fIcommand\fP
the specified command is executed and then
.B ippoolconfig
terminates.  When no command is given,
.B ippoolconfig
enters interactive mode, presenting the user with a Command Line
Interface (CLI) providing command line editing, context sensitive help
and TAB completion.
.PD
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B ippoold
must be running before the first 
.B ippoolconfig
command is issued.
.PD
.B ippoolconfig
uses 
.B Sun RPC
to communicate with
.B ippoold,
so the system must be capable of running 
.B RPC.
.PD
.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
.B ippoolconfig
provides a context-sensitive Command Line Interface (CLI). Hitting <TAB>
at the prompt shows a list of keywords applicable. Entering a few letters of
a keyword and hitting TAB again completes the keyword (if possible). Hitting 
TAB again shows a list of next valid keywords. When valid object type name 
and operation are present, <TAB> shows a list of valid parameters for
the operation. Entering a few letters of a parameter and hitting <TAB>
completes the parameter name if possible and appends a 
.I '=' 
sign after the name if the parameter takes a value.
.PP
The 
.B \<?\>
key behaves similarly to <TAB> in that it displays possible
completions but it also gives descriptive help about each option.
.PD
.SS KEY BINDINGS
.B ippoolconfig
provides intuitive command line editing with history. Key bindings are
the same as 
.BR bash ( 1 )
by default, although they can be changed using
.B ippoolconfig
entries in a
.B .inputrc
file. See the
.BR readline ( 3 )
manual page for more information.
.PP
Commonly used default key bindings are:
.TP 10
.B <ctrl-a>
beginning of line
.TP
.B <ctrl-e>
end of line
.TP 
.B <ctrl-k>
kill characters from cursor to end of line
.TP
.B <ctrl-y>
yank characters last killed into line at cursor position
.TP
.B <meta-f>
forward a word
.TP
.B <meta-b>
back a word
.TP
.B <meta-t>
transpose word at cursor position with previous word.
.PP
On keyboards without a Meta (Alt) key, the Escape key can be used.
.SS COMMAND HISTORY
In interactive mode,
.B ippoolconfig
writes command history data to
.I ~/.ippool_history
when the application exits. This gives the operator the ability to recall
commands from a previous session.
.PP
If desired, the environment variable 
.I IPPOOL_HISTFILE
can be used to point to an alternative history file and
.I IPPOOL_HISTFILESIZE
can be used to limit the history file to
.I nnn
entries. If
.I IPPOOL_HISTFILE
is set to an empty string, the writing of history information to a
file is disabled.
.PD
.SH PERSISTENT CONFIGURATION
.B ippoold
does not use configuration files; all configuration is done using 
an RPC client application such as
.BR ippoolconfig .
However, it is useful to save and restore configuration snapshots.
.B ippoolconfig
provides
.HP
.nf 
config save file=<filename>
.fi
.LP
and
.HP
.nf
config restore file=<filename>
.fi
.LP
commands for this purpose. Configuration data is written to the file in
plain text so may be edited by hand if desired. Note that this feature is
implemented in
.BR ippoolconfig ,
not the
.BR ippoold
daemon. Future versions may add an RPC interface to allow RPC client
applications the ability to retrieve and restore configuration in a
binary format.
.SH SYNTAX SUMMARY
The following output is taken from the context sensitive help in 
.BR ippoolconfig 's.
interactive mode. Use the
.I <?>
key to ask for context sensitive help.
.SS COMMAND SUMMARY
.nf
ippool> ?
exit    - exit application
server  - sets application to manage a remote ippoold server
config  - configuration save/restore
quit    - exit application

ippool> ippool ?
create  - create a new IP address pool
address - address related commands
list    - list all IP address pools
show    - show an IP address pool
modify  - modify an IP address pool
delete  - delete an IP address pool

ippool> server ?
modify - switch to manage a remote ippoold server
show   - show server parameters

ippool> config ?
save    - save configuration
restore - restore configurationfrom file
.fi
.SS IPPOOL CREATE
.nf
ippool> pool create ?
pool_name  - Name of ip pool
first_addr - First address in the pool
num_addrs  - Number of addresses in the pool. Default: derived 
             from netmask
trace      - Pool trace control. Default: OFF.
drain      - Drain pool (disable further allocations). Default: OFF.
max_addrs  - Maximum number of addresses contained in pool. 
             Default = 0 (unlimited)
.fi
.SS IPPOOL MODIFY
.nf
ippool> pool modify ?
pool_name - Name of ip pool
trace     - Pool trace control. Default: OFF.
drain     - Drain pool (disable further allocations). Default: OFF.
max_addrs - Maximum number of addresses contained in pool. 
            Default = 0 (unlimited)
.fi
.SS IPPOOL ADDRESS ADD
.nf
ippool> pool address add 
pool_name  - Name of ip pool
netmask    - IP netmask for address block. Default: 255.255.255.0.
first_addr - First address in the block
num_addrs  - Number of addresses in the block. Default: derived
             from netmask.
.fi
.IP
Any number of non-overlapping address blocks may be added to a pool.
.SS IPPOOL ADDRESS REMOVE
.nf
ippool> pool address add 
pool_name  - Name of ip pool
netmask    - IP netmask for address block. Default: 255.255.255.0.
first_addr - First address in the block.
num_addrs  - Number of addresses in the block. Default: derived
             from netmask.
.fi
.IP
Partial address blocks cannot be removed. The
.I first_addr
and
.I num_addrs
parameters must match the values used when the address block was created.
.SS IPPOOL ADDRESS RESERVE
.nf
ippool> pool address add 
pool_name  - Name of ip pool
first_addr - First address in the block.
num_addrs  - Number of addresses in the block. 
.fi
.SS IPPOOL ADDRESS UNRESERVE
.nf
ippool> pool address add 
pool_name  - Name of ip pool
first_addr - First address in the block.
num_addrs  - Number of addresses in the block. 
.fi
.SS IPPOOL SHOW
.nf
ippool> pool show 
pool_name - Name of ip pool
.fi
.SS IPPOOL DELETE
.nf
ippool> pool show 
pool_name - Name of ip pool
.fi
.SS SERVER MODIFY
.nf
ippool> server modify ?
name - IP address or hostname of L2TP daemon to attach to. Default=localhost.
.fi
.SS CONFIG SAVE
.nf
ippool> config save ?
file   - Filename for save/restore operation.
.fi
.SS CONFIG RESTORE
.nf
ippool> config restore ?
file   - Filename for save/restore operation.
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.hy 0
.na
.HP 0
.TP 0
.IP "\fBConfigure ippoold with an address pool called \fIone\fB. \
Some addresses within the pool are reserved (assigned for other uses).\fP"
.LP
.nf
ippool> pool create pool_name=one first_addr=10.1.1.1 num_addrs=10
ippool> pool address add pool_name=one first_addr=10.2.1.1 num_addrs=100
ippool> pool address reserve pool_name=one first_addr=10.1.1.5 num_addrs=2
ippool> pool show pool_name=one
IP pool one:-
  max pool size: 0 (unlimited)
  debug messages: NO, drain: NO
  address blocks:-
    base 10.1.1.1 thru 10.1.1.10 (size 10), netmask 255.255.255.0
    base 10.2.1.1 thru 10.2.1.100 (size 100), netmask 255.255.255.0
  reserved address blocks:-
    base 10.1.1.5 thru 10.1.1.6 (size 2), netmask 255.255.255.0
  total addresses: 110, available: 108
  pool use statistics:-
    allocs: 0, frees: 0, alloc_fails: 0
  available address blocks:-
    base 10.1.1.1 thru 10.1.1.4
    base 10.1.1.7 thru 10.1.1.10
    base 10.2.1.1 thru 10.2.1.100
.fi
.ad b
.hy 1
.PD
.SH FILES
.BR ~/.ippool_history
.PD
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs to <openl2tp-bugs@lists.sourceforge.net>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR ippoolconfig ( 1 ),
.BR ippoold ( 8 ),
.BR readline ( 3 ).
