.ig \"-*- nroff -*-
Copyright (c) 2004 Katalix Systems Ltd.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be included in
translations approved by Katalix Systems Ltd instead of in
the original English.
..
.\"
.\" MAN PAGE COMMENTS to openl2tp-docs@lists.sourceforge.net
.\"
.TH ippool_rpc 4 "12 September 2004" "IpPool" "IpPool Manual"
.PD
.SH NAME
ippool_rpc \- IP Pool Daemon RPC Interface
.PD
.SH SYNOPSIS
This document describes the 
.B RPC
management interface of
.B ippoold.
.PP
The general user of
.B ippoold
should find this document useful as it lists all parameters accessible
over the interface.
.PP
.PD
.SH DESCRIPTION
An application wishing to control and/or obtain status information from
.B ippoold
must implement all or part of this interface as an RPC client. The 
.B ippoold
RPC interface definition is defined in 
.I ippool_rpc.x
which is available in the application source distribution. This file
may be processed by RPC tools such as
.BR rpcgen ( 1 ) 
to generate C, C++ or even Java source code that implements the
interface.
.PP
.B ippoold
was originally written for the
.B OpenL2TP
project but was repackaged as a separate application so that it could 
be used by other applications. 
.PD
.SH BUILDING CLIENT APPLICATIONS
You can safely skip this section if you are already familiar with Sun RPC.
.PP
There are several tools to help build Sun RPC client applications, some of which
are proprietary and cost money. To build Java client applications, tools such as 
.nf
http://netbula.com/
http://www.onc-rpc-xdr.com/
.fi
may be used. To build C applications,
.BR rpcgen ( 3 )
is available.
.BR ippoolconfig
is an RPC client application implementing the interfaces of 
.I ippool_rpc.x
and is a good place to look for example code.
.PP
.BR rpcgen
generates C code from the interface definition file, 
.I ippool_rpc.x. When building client applications, 
.BR rpcgen
should generate client stubs and XDR (architecture independant
structure serialization) which are simply linked with the client
application code.
.nf
rpcgen -N -M -C -L -h -o ippool_rpc.h ippool_rpc.x
rpcgen -N -M -C -L -c -o ippool_rpc_xdr.c ippool_rpc.x
rpcgen -N -M -C -L -l -o ippool_rpc_client.c ippool_rpc.x
cc -o myapp myapp.o ippool_rpc_xdr.o ippool_rpc_client.o
.fi
.PP
The generated file
.I ippool_rpc.h
defines C structures and function prototypes for all interfaces. The
client application simply calls the functions as if they were linked
directly with the application. Under the hood, RPC serializes the data
and passes it (usually) over a network to the application server. When
the response comes back, the client's RPC function call returns as if
all the work were done locally.
.PP
Refer to
.BR rpc ( 3 )
for more details about RPC.
.PD
.SH INTERFACES
.PP
This section covers the interface details.
.LP
.SS IPPOOL
.nf
Operations:-
STATUS                       POOL_CREATE(struct ip_pool params)
STATUS                       POOL_DELETE(string pool_name)
STATUS                       POOL_MODIFY(struct ip_pool params)
struct ip_pool               POOL_GET(string pool_name)
struct ip_pool_list          POOL_LIST(void)
STATUS                       POOL_ADDRBLOCK_ADD(string pool_name, 
                                           struct ip_pool_addrblock blk)
STATUS                       POOL_ADDRBLOCK_REMOVE(string pool_name, 
                                              struct ip_pool_addrblock blk)
STATUS                       POOL_ADDRBLOCK_RESERVE(string pool_name, 
                                               struct ip_pool_addrblock blk)
STATUS                       POOL_ADDRBLOCK_UNRESERVE(string pool_name, 
                                                 struct ip_pool_addrblock blk)
struct ip_addr_alloc_result  POOL_ADDR_ALLOC(string pool_name)
STATUS                       POOL_ADDR_FREE(string pool_name, struct ip_addr addr)
.fi
.PP 16
Referenced by: pool_name
.PP
IP address pools contain one or more address blocks of IP
addresses. Address blocks are specified by first address and number of
addresses in the block. Address blocks may be added and removed from a
pool, or reserved and unreserved. In this way, a group of IP addresses
may be configured by an operator.
.LP
.IP "\fICreate-only parameters:-\fP"
.LP
.TP 24
.B pool_name
Identifies the pool. Must be unique.
.LP
.IP "\fIModifiable parameters:-\fP"
.LP
.TP 24
.B trace
Enables or disables logging messages from the pool. If enabled,
messages are logged each time an address is allocated from the pool or
returned back to it. Default is off.
.TP
.B drain
Drains the pool of allocated addresses. Addresses already allocated may
be freed but new addresses may not be allocated. This may be useful for
an administrator to move the system over to a new configuration without
interrupting service.
.TP
.B max_addrs
Maximum number of addresses that may be assigned to the pool. Default 
is 0 (unlimited).
.LP
.IP "\fIAddress Block parameters:-\fP"
.LP
.TP
.B first_addr
First address of an address block.
.TP
.B netmask
The netmask bounding the addresses in the address block. Default: 255.255.255.0.
.TP
.B num_addrs
Number of addresses in the address block starting at
.I first_addr.
The default value is derived from the netmask, i.e. 256 for a netmask of
255.255.255.0.
.PD
.SH LICENSE
.PP
.B IpPool
is dual-licensed. Users can choose to use the IpPool software as an
Open Source/Free Software product under the terms of the GNU General
Public License (http://www.fsf.org/licenses/) or can purchase a
commercial license from Katalix Systems Ltd.  All applications written
to the interface specified in this document fall under this
license. Any application, even a closed source application, is deemed
to be a
.I derived work
when it implements this interface. Users not wanting to have this restriction
must purchase a commercial license. For details see the
.I LICENSE
file in the
.B IpPool
source distribution. 
.PD
.SH FILES
.TP 8
.BI /usr/lib/openl2tp/ippool_rpc.x
is the RPC interface definition source file.
It may be used to generate C or Java API source code using appropriate tools.
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR ippoolconfig ( 1 ),
.BR ippoold ( 8 ),
.BR rpc ( 3 ).
