<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="head" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <h2 class="step-heading">Using the VPN connection</h2>

        <ul>
        <li>
          Double click the connection icon (e.g. <strong class="cb-guilabel">My Company VPN</strong>) on your desktop, or use
          <strong class="cb-guilabel">Control panel</strong> &rarr; <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network connections</strong> 
          to open your connection.
        </li>

        <li>
          Enter your <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> username and password to the dialog.
          If you want to save your <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> username and password to this computer, check
          <strong class="cb-guilabel">Save this user name and password for the following users</strong>
          checkbox and select either <strong class="cb-guilabel">Me only</strong> or 
          <strong class="cb-guilabel">Anyone who uses this computer</strong> depending on your preferences.
          Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Connect</strong>.
        </li>
        <li>
          The connection dialog will disappear and a tray balloon will indicate that the connection is active.
        </li>
        <li>
          Ensure that connectivity to your company network resources works correctly by e.g. using your
          e-mail client or opening a web page from an intranet server.
        </li>
        <li>
          You have several options to disconnect your VPN connection:
          <ul>
            <li>
              Click right mouse button over the VPN connection icon on Windows desktop and select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Disconnect</strong>
              from the context menu.
            </li>
            <li>
              Click taskbar connection icon to open Status dialog. Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Disconnect</strong>.
            </li>
            <li>
              Click right mouse button over taskbar connection icon and select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Disconnect</strong>
              from the context menu.
            </li>
          </ul>  
        </li>
        </ul>

        <h2 class="step-heading">Optional: Improving reliability</h2>
        <p>
          If you wish to improve the reliability of your VPN connection,
          you can enable automatic redialing.  Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Properties</strong> from the 
          connection dialog and select the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Options</strong> tab.  Alter settings
          e.g. as follows:
        <ul>
          <li>Redial attempts &rarr; <strong class="cb-userinput">50</strong></li>
          <li>Time between redial attempts &rarr; <strong class="cb-userinput">10 seconds</strong></li>
          <li>Idle time before hanging up &rarr; <strong class="cb-userinput">never</strong></li>
          <li>Check the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Redial if line is dropped</strong> checkbox</li>
        </ul>
        </p>
        <p>  
          These settings ensure that Windows automatically reconnects if the server is temporarily unavailable.
          However, other settings may be more appropriate for your environment.
        </p>

<n:invisible n:render="form user_information_form" />

      </div>

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
