<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="head" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <h2 class="step-heading">Using the VPN connection</h2>

        <ul>
          <li>
            Go to <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network Connections</strong> through
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Start</strong> &rarr;
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Control Panel</strong> &rarr;
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network and Internet</strong> &rarr;
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network and Sharing Center</strong> &rarr;
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Manage network connections</strong>.
            (If you use Classic view, this path will be different.)
          </li>

          <li>
            Start the VPN connection by double-clicking your <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> connection profile
            (e.g. <strong class="cb-guilabel">My Company VPN</strong>).
          </li>

          <li>
            Enter your <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> username and password to the dialog.
            If you want to save your <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> username and password 
            to this computer, check
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Save this user name and password for the following users</strong>
            checkbox and select either <strong class="cb-guilabel">Me only</strong> or 
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Anyone who uses this computer</strong> depending on your preferences.
            Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Connect</strong>.
          </li>

          <li>
            Connection window will disappear and a tray icon
            will indicate that the connection is active.
          </li>

          <li>
            When you connect for the first time, Windows opens a <strong class="cb-guilabel">Set Network Location</strong> dialog
            which allows you to configure network location, which primarily affects connection security settings.
            Because the VPN connection is a trusted one, select the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Work</strong> option.
            Click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Close</strong> to complete network location
            configuration.
          </li>

          <li>
            Ensure that connectivity to your company network resources works correctly by e.g. using your
            e-mail client or opening a web page from an intranet server.
            <!-- You can also use the <strong class="cb-guilabel">ping</strong>
            command in the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Command Prompt</strong> (<strong class="cb-guilabel">cmd.exe</strong>) to test reachability of some
            intranet server. -->
          </li>
          <li>
            You have several options to disconnect your VPN connection:
            <ul>
              <li>
                Click right mouse button over VPN connection icon and select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Disconnect</strong>
                from the context menu.
              </li>
              <li>
                Click taskbar connection icon. Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Connect or disconnect...</strong>
                from the appearing menu to open Connect to a network dialog. Select VPN 
                connection (e.g. My Company VPN) and click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Disconnect</strong>.
              </li>
            </ul>  
          </li>
        </ul>

        <h2 class="step-heading">Optional: Creating a desktop shortcut</h2>
        <p>
          If you are using the VPN connection regularly you can create a shortcut for the
          VPN connection to your Windows desktop:
          <ul>
          <li>
            Go to <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network Connections</strong> through
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Start</strong> &rarr;
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Control Panel</strong> &rarr;
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network and Internet</strong> &rarr;
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Network and Sharing Center</strong> &rarr;
            <strong class="cb-guilabel">Manage network connections</strong>.
          </li>
          <li>
            Drag your VPN connection icon with right mouse button on the desktop.
          </li>
          <li>
            Release mouse button and select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Create Shortcuts Here</strong> from the appearing context menu.
          </li>  
          </ul>
        </p>
        
        <h2 class="step-heading">Optional: Improving reliability</h2>
        <p>
          If you wish to improve the reliability of your
          VPN connection, you can enable automatic redialing.  Click
          <strong class="cb-guilabel">Properties</strong> from the connection dialog and select
          <strong class="cb-guilabel">Options</strong> tab.  Alter settings as follows:
          <ul> <!-- auto redial -->
            <li>Redial attempts &rarr; <strong class="cb-userinput">50</strong></li>
            <li>Time between redial attempts &rarr; <strong class="cb-userinput">10 seconds</strong></li>
            <li>Idle time before hanging up &rarr; <strong class="cb-userinput">never</strong></li>
            <li>Check the <strong class="cb-guilabel">Redial if line is dropped</strong> checkbox</li>
            <!-- NOTE:
                   "Redial if line is dropped" is enabled by default in Vista.
                   The setting is disabled by default in Windows XP and Windows 2000.
            -->
          </ul> <!-- auto redial -->
        </p>
        <p>
          These settings ensure that Windows automatically reconnects if the server is temporarily unavailable.
          However, other settings may be more appropriate for your environment.
        </p>
        

<n:invisible n:render="form user_information_form" />

      </div>
    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
