<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">L2TP Product Web</n:invisible></title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="static/common.css" />
    <n:invisible n:pattern="head" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" />&#x00ae; DESCRIPTION OF FILE</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Description of File (In accordance with Finnish Personal Data Act, section 10)
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Name of the Data File
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Customer register
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Name and Address of the Data Controller
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Codebay Oy<br />
          PL 63<br />
          02601 Espoo<br />
          Finland<br />
        </p>

        <p>
          (Visiting address: Codebay Oy, Tekniikantie 14 (Innopoli 2), 02600 Espoo, Finland.)
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Purpose of the Processing of the Personal Data
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Customer service, delivery and billing of products, development of products and services
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Description of Data Groups and Collected Information
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Customers, data collected:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>Name</li>
          <li>User name</li>
          <li>Country of location</li>
          <li>E-mail address</li>
          <li>Unique identification number (customer number)</li>
          <li>Credit card identification data</li>
        </ul>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Disclose and Transfer of Data
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          No data is disclosed to third parties or transferred outside European Union except for credit card billing data of foreign customers as requested by customers ordering products. 
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
Description of Security Principles
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Data file is stored in Finland in a way that it is protected from unauthorized access or use (by using passwords and encryption).
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
Rights of the Registered Persons
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          A registered person shall have the right of access, after having supplied sufficient search criteria, to the data on him/her in a personal data file, or to a notice that the file contains no such data. This is done without cost once a year. A request to this effect to the controller shall be made by a personally signed or otherwise comparably verified document or by appearing personally in the premises of the controller.
        </p>

        <p>
          A registered person has the right to request the data controller to rectify, erase or supplement personal data contained in its personal data file and rectify erroneous, unnecessary, incomplete or obsolete data as regards the purpose of the processing and prohibit the controller to process personal data for purposes of direct advertising.
        </p>

        <p>
          Copyright &#x00a9; Codebay Oy 2007.
          Codebay&#x00ae; and VPNease&#x00ae; are registered trademarks of Codebay Oy.
        </p>

        <p>
          Document last updated: 27.8.2007.
        </p>
      </div>

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
