<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">L2TP Product Web</n:invisible></title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="static/common.css" />
    <n:invisible n:pattern="head" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" />&#x00ae; LEGAL NOTICE</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Legal Notice
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          This website is owned by Codebay Oy (hereinafter the
          "Website"). The following terms and conditions shall apply
          to any and all use of this Website.
        </p>

        <p>
          All use of the Website contrary to these terms and
          conditions is prohibited. If you do not accept these terms
          and conditions, you are not allowed to use this Website.
        </p>

        <p>
          <a href="privacy-policy.html">Click here</a>
          to learn about our privacy policy.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            General Terms of Use
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Codebay Oy reserves all rights to this Website and its
          contents. Unless otherwise expressly stated in these terms
          and conditions, a user of the Website has no right to copy,
          even partially (including mirroring), or otherwise
          replicate, save, move, forward, distribute, publish, include
          into other material, or in any way download to one's own
          computer any material from the Website (including any text,
          pictures, trademarks, logos, graphics or music) without the
          express written consent of Codebay Oy.
        </p>

        <p>
          Separate terms of use respective to the products, goods or
          services offered on or through the Website may be
          applicable. Separate license terms apply to all software
          offered on or through the Website.
        </p>

        <p>
          The Finnish law is applied to the terms of use of the Website.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Permitted Use
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Any written material and content on the Website may only be
          used (including necessary copying), if a) the source of the
          material is stated appropriately and copyright notices are
          included in all copies made, b) the use of the material is
          private and non-commercial only, c) no material taken from
          the Website is altered in any way.
        </p>

        <p>
          All other use without the express prior written consent of
          Codebay Oy is strictly prohibited. A violation of the
          prohibition can result in legal action and liability for
          damages. A violation of these terms and conditions
          automatically leads to termination of all rights to use the
          Website.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Copyright and Trademarks
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          The Website is the property of Codebay Oy.
        </p>

        <p>
          The copyright and other rights to all content on the Website
          and its appearance (including all information and written
          material, e-documents, graphics, pictures and sounds,
          software, software products and services) are the property
          of Codebay Oy or third parties. All trademarks, product
          marks, business and company signs and other equivalent
          material on the Website are the property of Codebay Oy or a
          third party. The pages are protected by the Copyright Act,
          the Trademarks Act and international copyright treaties.
        </p>

        <p>
          Codebay&#x00ae; and VPNease&#x00ae; are registered trademarks of Codebay Oy.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Software
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Any software offered to users on the Website against payment
          or free of charge is the property of Codebay Oy or third
          parties, and respective copyrights and other rights are the
          property of Codebay Oy and/or third parties. Unless
          otherwise expressly stated herein, all software programs are
          intended for their end-users only. License terms and
          conditions of Codebay Oy or third parties (as applicable)
          shall apply to any and all software available via the
          Website.
        </p>

        <p>
          User must agree to any applicable license terms and
          conditions before using the software or downloading it. All
          copying, duplicating, saving, changing, transferring,
          distributing, publishing, including into other material and
          other equivalent activity is strictly prohibited, unless
          otherwise expressly stated in the applicable license terms
          and conditions.
        </p>

        <p>
          Codebay Oy does not give any guarantee whatsoever to any
          software available through the Website unless otherwise
          stated in the applicable license terms and conditions.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            No Liability
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Codebay Oy is the publisher of the Website and any material
          thereon. Codebay Oy is not responsible for the availability,
          reliability, faultlessness, fitness for any specific
          purpose, the use or non-use or any other matter of the
          Website, its contents and other material thereon, or any
          products, goods or services offered through the Website,
          unless otherwise expressly stated in these terms and
          conditions or otherwise stated respectively of the products,
          goods, services and materials.
        </p>

        <p>
          The user of the Website shall under any and all
          circumstances be responsible for the maintenance of his
          computer and communications hardware, their use, condition,
          security, the making of backups, virus protection, and other
          corresponding activities. Codebay Oy is under no
          circumstances liable for any possible direct or indirect
          damages suffered by the user of the Website for any
          reason. The user of the Website is liable for all damages
          caused intentionally or by negligence (for example by
          spreading computer viruses or endangering information
          security) to Codebay Oy or a third party to their full
          extent.
        </p>

        <p>
          Codebay Oy will make reasonable efforts to administer and
          publish the Website with adequate technology in accordance
          with good information security practices. Codebay Oy is,
          however, not liable for any technical or other malfunction
          or a threat thereof caused by the use of the Website to the
          user or any other party.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Right to Change Reserved
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          The Website is provided "as is". Codebay Oy does not
          guarantee the functioning or availability of the Website or
          any content thereof. Codebay Oy has, at any time, the right
          to update, change, add or remove any material on the Website
          and restrict access to the Website without prior
          notice. Codebay Oy has the right, at any time and without
          prior notice, to change the terms of use of the Website, the
          selection and contents of the products, goods and services
          available on the Website and any possible applicable license
          terms and terms of use in addition to the appearance,
          contents and other properties of the Website.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            The Providing of Material
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          The user of the Website assures, and is responsible for that
          no illegal or otherwise inappropriate material is sent by
          the user to the Website. The user must ensure that the
          material being sent does not contain any computer viruses or
          be harmful in any other way. Codebay Oy has the right, at
          any time and without prior notice to remove and destroy any
          material provided to the Website or to Codebay Oy through
          the Website.
        </p>

        <p>
          Codebay Oy does not check or modify the material it possibly
          receives through the Website, and is in no way responsible
          for any material sent to it through the Website. Codebay Oy
          has the right to hold public any material sent to it through
          the Website, and has no secrecy- or any other responsibility
          due to the material. By sending any material to Codebay Oy
          through the Website, the sender grants Codebay Oy the
          permanent, irrevocable and unrestricted right to copy,
          present, include into other material, show, modify, further
          develop, forward and distribute the material in question
          free of charge and without any obligations towards the
          user. The sender of the material also agrees and grants to
          Codebay Oy a right comparable to the aforementioned, to use
          and to exploit in its business activities in any way, any
          information, ideas, technology and other content contained
          in the aforementioned material.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Linking
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          The Website owned by Codebay Oy may contain links to the
          websites of other parties. The websites' own terms of use
          are applied to such websites and their use. Codebay Oy takes
          no responsibility for third parties' websites and their
          contents. Unless Codebay Oy expressly otherwise notifies,
          the company does in no way sponsor, support or otherwise
          give support to the linked pages in question, their content,
          use, or other related matters.
        </p>

        <p>
          Copyright &#x00a9; Codebay Oy 2007.
          Codebay&#x00ae; and VPNease&#x00ae; are registered trademarks of Codebay Oy.
        </p>

        <p>
          Document last updated: 27.8.2007.
        </p>
      </div>

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
