<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle">Pricing</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> has a monthly per server license fee which
          depends on the number of concurrent end-user and site-to-site VPN connections as follows:
        </p>

        <table id="pricing-1" border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
          <tr>
            <th colspan="2">Number of concurrent end-user VPN connections</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>1-10</td>
            <td>9&#x20ac; / connection / month</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>11-100</td>
            <td>8&#x20ac; / connection / month</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>More than 100</td>
            <td>7&#x20ac; / connection / month</td>
          </tr>
        </table>

        <table id="pricing-2" border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
          <tr>
            <th colspan="2">Number of site-to-site VPN connections</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>One site-to-site endpoint</td>
            <td>19&#x20ac; / connection / month</td>
          </tr>
        </table>

        <p>
          Note: for a site-to-site connection, two servers and thus two licenses are required (for a total
          of 38&#x20ac; per site-to-site connection).
        </p>

        <h2 class="midlabel">Pricing details</h2>

        <ul>
          <li>
            Monthly license fee is determined by the highest fee during a calender month.
            When updating server license, the updated monthly fee recurs at the start of every
            following month.  If the license fee increases, the difference between current and
            new monthly fee is invoiced for the current month.  If the license fee decreases, the 
            difference between current and new monthly fee is not returned.
          </li>
          <li>
            Each <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> serves requires a
            separate license, and discounts (for end-user VPN connection count) apply to each server
            license individually. 
          </li>
          <li>
            Prices do not include VAT, see <a href="payment-options.html">Payment Options</a> for VAT details.
          </li>
          <li>
            Pricing is subject to change with 3 months notice.
          </li>
          <li>
            Please see our <a href="partners-home.html">partner pages</a> for partner pricing information.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </div>
    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
