<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">L2TP Product Web</n:invisible></title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="static/common.css" />
    <n:invisible n:pattern="head" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" />&#x00ae; PRIVACY POLICY</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Privacy Policy
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>Codebay Oy</p>

        <p>
          [Please <a href="description-of-file.html">click here</a> to review full description of file
          in accordance with the Finnish Personal Data Act.]
        </p>

        <p>
          Codebay Oy is committed to preserving the privacy of all
          users and customers of www.vpnease.com. Please read the
          following privacy policy to understand how we use and
          protect the information that you provide to us.
        </p>

        <p>
          By registering or placing an order on this site or by using
          the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> product, you consent
          to the collection, use and transfer of your information in
          accordance with Finnish Personal Data Act and under the
          terms of this policy.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Information that we collect from you
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          When you visit, register or order products on
          www.vpnease.com, you may be asked to provide certain
          information about yourself including your name, contact
          details and credit or debit card information and technical
          data for delivery of your order. We may also collect
          information about your usage of our website as well as
          information about you from messages you post to the website
          and e-mails or letters you send to us.
        </p>

        <p>
          Our <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> product collects technical data of the server it
          is installed into. This information does not include any
          personal data and it is collected for license management and
          error correction purposes only. Technical information
          collected includes license key, address of the server (IP
          address and port), installation identification data, version
          identification data and update method data. For bug fixing,
          error correction and development purposes we collect
          information of hardware/software equipment type and product
          errors ("watchdog process", for example re-booting in
          certain situations).
        </p>

        <p>
          Our product does not collect or send us any information
          concerning users (such as user names or passwords),
          configuration or billing data (which is processed only in
          connection with user accounts of www.vpnease.com).
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Use of your information
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Your information will enable us to provide you with access
          to all parts of our site and to supply the goods or services
          you have requested.  It will also enable us to bill you and
          to contact you where necessary concerning your orders. We
          will also use and analyse the information we collect so that
          we can administer, support, improve and develop our service
          and software products.
        </p>

        <p>
          In particular, we may use your information to contact you
          for your views on our services and to notify you
          occasionally about important changes or developments to the
          site or our services.  Further, where you have consented, we
          might also use your information to let you know about other
          products and services which we offer which may be of
          interest to you and we may contact you by
          e-mail. If you change your mind about being contacted in the
          future, please let us know.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Disclosure of your information
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          The information you provide to us will be stored and
          processed in accordance with the Finnish Personal Data
          Act. No personal information will be transferred to third
          parties or outside European Union except billing data, as
          may be applicable for our international customers. Countries
          outside the European Economic Area do not always have strong
          data protection laws. However, we will always take steps to
          ensure that your information is used by third parties in
          accordance with this policy.
        </p>

        <p>
          Unless required to do so by law, we will not otherwise
          share, sell or distribute any of the information you provide
          to us without your consent.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Cookies
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Cookies are small amounts of information which we store on
          your computer. Unless you have indicated your objection when
          disclosing your details to us, our system may issue cookies
          to your computer when you log on to the site. Cookies make
          it easier for you to log on to and use the site during
          future visits.  They also allow us to monitor website
          traffic and to personalise the content of the site for you.
          You may set up your computer to reject cookies. However, in
          that case, you may not be able to use certain features on
          our site.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Security 
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          We employ security measures to protect your information from
          access by unauthorised persons and against unlawful
          processing, accidental loss, destruction and damage.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Accessing and updating
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          You are entitled to see the information held about you and
          you may ask us to make any necessary changes to ensure that
          it is accurate and kept up to date.  If you wish to do this,
          please contact us.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Changes to our privacy policy
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Any changes to our privacy policy in the future will be
          posted to the site and, where appropriate, through e-mail
          notification.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Contact
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          All comments, queries and requests relating to our use of
          your information are welcomed and should be addressed to
          info@vpnease.com.
        </p>

        <p>
          Copyright &#x00a9; Codebay Oy 2007.
          Codebay&#x00ae; and VPNease&#x00ae; are registered trademarks of Codebay Oy.
        </p>

        <p>
          Document last updated: 27.8.2007.
        </p>
      </div>

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
