<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /></n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> is an IPsec-based VPN product, which provides:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <strong class="cb-bold">Easy and secure connectivity</strong> -
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> connects employees and company sites
            to the corporate network through the Internet.
          </li>
          <li>
            <strong class="cb-bold">Very low support costs</strong> - 
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
            uses the built-in VPN client of client operating systems,
            which eliminates compatibility problems and the need to install and update
            client software.
          </li>
          <li>
            <strong class="cb-bold">Application neutrality</strong> - 
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> supports all applications, including
            e-mail, Windows file shares, databases, VoIP, and videoconferencing.
          </li>
          <li>
            <strong class="cb-bold">Strong cryptography</strong> - 
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> uses the L2TP/IPsec VPN standard.
          </li>
        </ul>

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> server software is installed on standard PC hardware and
          terminates VPN connections from the Internet.
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> uses the built-in VPN clients of supported operating
          systems (XP, Vista, OS X, and others), so no software installation is required for clients.
          This removes the common VPN client software compatibility and
          stability problems, reducing support costs significantly compared to competing solutions.
        </p>

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> is an easy and cost efficient, yet reliable and
          secure solution.  Taking <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> into use requires no fixed
          fees.  You only pay a monthly fee, starting from 9&#x20ac; / month, based on connection capacity.
        </p>

        <p>
          See product documentation to find out more about <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />, or
          <a href="download-home.html">try the product</a> free for 30 days (installation and testing
          takes about 45 minutes).  You can also <a href="product-ask-more.html">send us a question</a>
          if you don't find the information you're looking for.
        </p>
      </div>

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>