<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">L2TP Product Web</n:invisible></title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="static/common.css" />
    <n:invisible n:pattern="head" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle">Product Comparison</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">
    
      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Virtual Private Network (VPN) Overview</h1>

        <p>
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_private_network">Virtual Private Network (VPN)</a>
          products connect computers securely through insecure networks (such as the Internet), using
          encryption and other cryptographic techniques to secure data in transit.  As a result, remote
          workers, customers, partners, and various company sites can be linked together securely, as if a
          secure "private network" existed between the parties.  VPNs provide an extremely cost effective
          means of achieving secure connectivity, and have thus become popular in recent years.
        </p>

        <p>
          VPN products typically provide two basic services:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>Connecting remote workers and other
              individual users to a company network, which is often called "remote access VPN"</li>
          <li>Connecting company or partner sites (networks) using a secure tunnel, which is often
              called "site-to-site VPN"</li>
        </ul>

        <p>
          From a user perspective, remote access VPNs typically work like a modem connection: the remote
          access connection is opened, the user is authenticated using a username and a password, and
          a secure connection is created.  User data traffic (in the form of IP data packets) can then
          be exchanged with the company network.
        </p>

        <p>
          Site-to-site VPNs perform a similar function, but are
          autonomous.  From user perspective they work similarly to a network router: data packets are
          sent to one site-to-site VPN device, which delivers them to the other site-to-site VPN device
          securely over the Internet, and the packets are then routed onwards.
          Many products provide one of these functions, while some products, like
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />, provide both functions.
        </p>

        <p>
          There are many VPN technologies in use, ranging from fully standard protocols (such as
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPsec">IPsec</a>)
          to fully proprietary vendor-specific solutions (such as SSL VPNs).  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />
          uses existing, reliable standards, and is based on the
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L2TP">L2TP/IPsec</a> VPN technology.
        </p>

        <p>
          IPsec-based VPNs are the ideal technology for VPN connectivity, because they provide very high
          quality security (relied upon by banks and even military organizations), and they are
          <strong class="cb-bold">packet based</strong>, which means that individual IP data packets are secured
          and transferred through the IPsec connection.
          This means that IPsec-based VPNs are fully transparent
          and are completely application independent. All the applications are protected automatically and
          can be used over the VPN connection.
          In particular, network services like Windows file sharing and Voice over IP (VoIP) are available without limitations.
        </p>

        <p>
          Some other VPN technologies, like proprietary and SSL-based VPNs, are often
          application dependent. Many applications may not work without explicit support 
          for the particular VPN solution.
        </p>
      </div> <!-- overview -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading"><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> &#x2014; for Small and Medium Sized Businesses</h1>

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> has been designed to deliver the best available IPsec-based
          remote access and site-to-site VPN connectivity to small and medium sized businesses.  The product
          has been designed with ease-of-use in mind: it is managed through a web-based interface,
          and built-in VPN client software provided by the operating system vendor is used without extra
          client software installation.
        </p>

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> even provides fully automatic VPN
          client configuration for Windows XP and Windows Vista computers, which allows non-technical users to
          activate their VPN connection without administrative help.
        </p>

        <p>
          The pricing model also suits small and medium sized businesses well. There is no fixed startup cost, but
          instead cost is capacity based (number of simultaneous remote access or site-to-site VPN connections).
          Finally, testing is free and requires no registration. 
          Simply <a href="download-home.html">download and test</a>.
        </p>
      </div> <!-- product - for small and medium sized businesses -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Compare VPN Solutions</h1>

        <table border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" id="vpn-comparison-table">
          <tr>
            <th>Feature</th>
            <th>IPsec VPNs</th>
            <th>SSL VPNs</th>
            <th>Proprietary VPNs</th>
            <th><n:invisible n:macro="productname" /></th>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td>Security</td>
            <td>IPsec and extensions</td>
            <td>SSL and/or proprietary</td>
            <td>Proprietary</td>
            <td><strong class="cb-bold">L2TP/IPsec</strong></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td class="cb-alt">Windows 2000 Client</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Third party client</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Third party client (1)</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Third party client</td>
            <td class="cb-alt"><strong class="cb-bold">Built-in<br />(Autoconf)</strong></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td class="cb-alt">Windows XP Client</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Third party client</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Third party client (1)</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Third party client</td>
            <td class="cb-alt"><strong class="cb-bold">Built-in<br />(Autoconf)</strong></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td>Windows Vista Client</td>
            <td>Third party client</td>
            <td>Third party client (1)</td>
            <td>Third party client</td>
            <td><strong class="cb-bold">Built-in<br />(Autoconf)</strong></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td class="cb-alt">Mac OS X Client</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Third party client</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Third party client (1)</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Third party client</td>
            <td class="cb-alt"><strong class="cb-bold">Built-in</strong></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td>Pocket PC / Windows Mobile Client</td>
            <td>Typically no</td>
            <td>Typically no (1)</td>
            <td>Typically no</td>
            <td><strong class="cb-bold">Built-in</strong></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td class="cb-alt">Linux Client</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Some</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Typically no (1)</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Some</td>
            <td class="cb-alt"><strong class="cb-bold">Packaged client</strong></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td>Nokia Internet Tablet Client</td>
            <td>Typically no</td>
            <td>Typically no (1)</td>
            <td>Typically no</td>
            <td><strong class="cb-bold">Packaged client</strong></td>
          </tr>

          <tr>
            <td class="cb-alt">Coexists with other VPN clients</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Typically no</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Typically no (1)</td>
            <td class="cb-alt">Typically no</td>
            <td class="cb-alt"><strong class="cb-bold">Typically yes</strong></td>
          </tr>
        </table>

        <p>
          (1) Third party client is needed for application neutral connections.
              Plain web access to company resources works with most browsers.
        </p>

      </div> <!-- compare -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Security and Standards</h1>

        <p>
          Like most VPN products, <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> authenticates
          the remote user by username and password, and protects all user data sent
          between the client and the server computers.  This effectively prevents
          attackers from gaining access to data in transit, and allows an employee to
          access company resources even from untrusted networks.  A VPN solution
          should be deployed in conjunction with supporting security measures, such as
          client firewall, anti-virus and anti-spam scanning, and hard disk encryption.
          Together, VPN and other security measures allow flexible access to your
          data, while protecting against external threats.
        </p>

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> protects user data by
          <strong class="cb-bold">encrypting</strong> data exchanged between the client
          and the server computers.
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> uses the
          <strong class="cb-bold">IPsec security protocol</strong> to ensure the highest
          possible security for encrypted user data.  IPsec is a standard developed by
          the <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://www.ietf.org/">Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)</a>
          and has been deployed commercially for almost 10 years.
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> uses IPsec in conjunction with the L2TP
          protocol in a combination commonly referred to as
          <strong class="cb-bold">L2TP/IPsec</strong>.
          See <a href="encryption-and-standards.html">Encryption and Standards</a> for details about cryptographic and compression
          algorithms.
        </p>

        <p>
          <a class="cb-external" target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_address_translation">Network Address Translation (NAT)</a>
          is often a problem with many VPN solutions.  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> supports the IPsec
          NAT traversal standard, allowing the product to work fully with all NAT and port forwarding devices.  In particular,
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> works correctly even when multiple client computers reside behind the same NAT device,
          a scenario which typically causes problems.
        </p>
      </div> <!-- security and standards -->

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
