<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">L2TP Product Web</n:invisible></title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="static/common.css" />
    <n:invisible n:pattern="head" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <!--
        <h1 class="cb-page-heading">Codebay Oy - <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />&#x00ae; LEGAL NOTICE</h1>
      -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Valid License Agreement Required
          </strong>
        </p>
        
        <p>
          This software and related material such as web user
          interface (hereinafter the "Software") is owned by Codebay
          Oy. This Software is part of the
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" />&#x00ae; product.
        </p>
        
        <p>
          Any written material and content on the Software may only be
          used (including necessary copying), in accordance with a valid
          license agreement. All use of the Software contrary to the
          license agreement is prohibited. If you do not accept these
          terms and conditions, you are not allowed to use this
          Software.
        </p>
        
        <p>
          The Finnish law is applied to the terms of use of the Software.
        </p>
        
        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Copyright and Trademarks
          </strong>
        </p>
        
        <p>
          The Software is the property of Codebay Oy.
        </p>
        
        <p>
          The copyright and other rights to all content on the
          Software and its appearance (including all information and
          written material, e-documents, graphics, pictures and
          sounds, software, software products and services) are the
          property of Codebay Oy or third parties. All trademarks,
          product marks, business and company signs and other
          equivalent material on the Software are the property of
          Codebay Oy or a third party. The pages are protected by the
          Copyright Act, the Trademarks Act and international
          copyright treaties.
        </p>
        
        <p>
          Codebay&#x00ae; and VPNease&#x00ae; are registered trademarks of Codebay Oy.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            No Liability
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          Codebay Oy does not give any guarantee whatsoever to this
          Software or any related software unless otherwise stated in
          the applicable license terms and conditions. Codebay Oy is
          not responsible for the availability, reliability,
          faultlessness, fitness for any specific purpose, the use or
          non-use or any other matter of the Software, its contents
          and other material thereon, or any products, goods or
          services offered through the Software, unless otherwise
          expressly stated in these terms and conditions or otherwise
          stated respectively of the products, goods, services and
          materials.
        </p>

        <p>
          The user of the Software shall under any and all
          circumstances be responsible for the maintenance of his
          computer and communications hardware, their use, condition,
          security, the making of backups, virus protection, and other
          corresponding activities. Codebay Oy is under no
          circumstances liable for any possible direct or indirect
          damages suffered by the user of the Software for any
          reason. The user of the Software is liable for all damages
          caused intentionally or by negligence (for example by
          spreading computer viruses or endangering information
          security) to Codebay Oy or a third party to their full
          extent.
        </p>

        <p>
          Codebay Oy will make reasonable efforts to
          publish the Software with adequate technology in accordance
          with good information security practices. Codebay Oy is,
          however, not liable for any technical or other malfunction
          or a threat thereof caused by the use of the Software to the
          user or any other party.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Right to Change Reserved
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          The Software and is provided "as is". Codebay Oy does not
          guarantee the functioning or availability of the Software or
          any content thereof. Codebay Oy has, at any time, the right
          to update, change, add or remove any material on the web
          user interface and restrict access to the Software without
          prior notice. Codebay Oy has the right, at any time and
          without prior notice, to change the terms of use of the
          Software, the selection and contents of the products, goods
          and services available on the web user interface and any
          possible applicable license terms and terms of use in
          addition to the appearance, contents and other properties of
          the Software.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Providing of Material
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          The user of the Software assures, and is responsible for
          that no illegal or otherwise inappropriate material is sent
          by the user to the web user interface. The user must ensure
          that the material being sent does not contain any computer
          viruses or be harmful in any other way. Codebay Oy has the
          right, at any time and without prior notice to remove and
          destroy any material provided to Codebay Oy through the
          Software.
        </p>

        <p>
          <strong class="cb-bold">
            Linking
          </strong>
        </p>

        <p>
          The Software owned by Codebay Oy may contain links to the
          websites of other parties. The websites' own terms of use
          are applied to such websites and their use. Codebay Oy takes
          no responsibility for third parties' websites and their
          contents. Unless Codebay Oy expressly otherwise notifies,
          the company does in no way sponsor, support or otherwise
          give support to the linked pages in question, their content,
          use, or other related matters.
        </p>

        <p>
          Copyright &#x00a9; Codebay Oy 2006-2008.
          Codebay&#x00ae; and VPNease&#x00ae; are registered trademarks of Codebay Oy.
        </p>

        <p>
          Document last updated: 27.8.2007.
        </p>
      </div>

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>
