<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <title><n:invisible n:pattern="title">Unused</n:invisible></title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="pagetitle">Partner Process</n:invisible>

    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">How to Become a Partner?</h1>
        <p>
          To become a partner, you need to:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>Accept the <a href="partner-license-agreement.html">Partner License Agreement (PLA)</a> and other legal obligations</li>
          <li>Fill in and send a <a href="request-partnership.html">Request Partnership</a> form</li>
          <li>Receive a confirmation from the <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> sales staff</li>
        </ul>
      </div> <!-- becoming a partner -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Floating Licenses and License Activation</h1>

        <p>
          To make service installation and activation as convenient as possible for both installation and
          service provider partners, <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> partners are supplied beforehand
          with "floating licenses".
          Floating licenses are directly functional but not yet associated with a specific customer.
          They allow installation and activation without a license request delay.
        </p>

        <p>
          When you install a new server, use one of the (unused) floating license keys during
          installation.  Then use the <a href="service-provider-partner-activate-license.html">Activate License</a> page to
          activate that license from floating to active mode.  License keys must be activated within 7 days of
          installation.  Unactivated floating licenses will be cancelled after 7 days of installation.
        </p>

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> support will provide you with more floating license keys
          as you start to exhaust existing ones.  If you need more floating license keys before
          that, please <a href="support-request.html">contact support</a>.
        </p>
      </div> <!-- floating licenses -->

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />
        <h1 class="cb-heading">Process for Service Provider Partners</h1>

        <div class="cb-section">
          <hr class="cb-section" />

          <p>
            There are two main processes for service provider partners.  First, partners
            install and activate <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> servers using floating licenses and
            activate the floating licenses within 7 days of installation.  Second,
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> invoices the partners after a month is through
            for the licenses used during the past month.
          </p>

          <p>
            The monthly fee is computed as follows: the collective amount of license fees excluding VAT
            for the partner's licenses, minus the <a href="partner-discounts.html">partner discount</a>,
            plus VAT (if applicable).  <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> will send an invoice for
            this amount through e-mail (or as agreed) after a month is through.  The invoice is due
            14th of the month following the invoicing period, and is paid using a Paypal payment (see
            <a href="payment-options.html">Payment Options</a>).
          </p>

          <p>
            The collective monthly license fees are computed as a sum of individual license fees.
            License fees are described in <a href="pricing.html">Pricing</a>.  In particular, the highest fee
            for a month determines the license fee for the month.
          </p>

          <p>
            Invoicing example:
          </p>
          <ul>
            <li>Customer license fees for January 2008 are 7000&#x20ac; (excluding VAT)</li>
            <li>Partner discount is 1275&#x20ac;, leaving a total discounted price of 5725&#x20ac;</li>
            <li>Total sum is 5725&#x20ac; + VAT (if applicable), due February 14th, 2008</li>
          </ul>

          <p>
            See <a href="payment-options.html">Payment Options</a> for VAT details.
          </p>
        </div>
      </div> <!-- service provider partners -->

    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>


