<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:n="http://nevow.com/ns/nevow/0.1">
  <head>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="head" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <n:invisible n:pattern="content">

      <div class="cb-section">
        <hr class="cb-section" />

        <h2 class="step-heading">Step 1: Prerequisites</h2>
        <ul> <!-- prereqs -->
          <li>Ensure that you have administrator privileges. You need administrator privileges
            to install Windows updates and configure the VPN connection.</li>
          <li>Ensure that you have the latest Windows 2000 Service Pack (SP4) installed. You can
              check your Windows Service Pack version from 
              <strong class="cb-guilabel">Start &rarr; Settings &rarr; Control Panel &rarr; System</strong>.
          </li>
          <li>Ensure that you have downloaded latest Windows updates from 
            <a href="http://update.microsoft.com/" class="cb-external" target="_blank">Microsoft Update</a>.
            Searching for Windows updates required by <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> may
            not be possible without latest Windows updates.
          </li>
        </ul>
        
        <h2 class="step-heading">Step 2: Install required Windows updates</h2>
          <p>
            <n:invisible n:macro="productname" /> requires <strong class="cb-bold">High Encryption Pack (HEP)</strong>
            and <strong class="cb-bold">Windows 2000 NAT traversal update</strong> to be installed.
          </p>
          
          <ul>
            <li>
                Go to <a href="http://update.microsoft.com/" class="cb-external" target="_blank">Microsoft Update</a> site.
              </li>
              <li>
                Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">Use administrator options</strong> from 
                <strong class="cb-guilabel">Options</strong> menu.
              </li>
              <li>
                Select <strong class="cb-guilabel">search the Windows Update Catalog</strong> link found
                under <strong class="cb-guilabel">Update multiple operating systems</strong>. 
                The search page requires you to install an ActiveX component (Windows Update).
              </li>
              <li>
                To find <strong class="cb-bold">Windows 2000 NAT traversal update</strong>, 
                enter <strong class="cb-userinput">818043</strong> to the search field
                and click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Search</strong>. Add the Windows 2000 update
                to your basket.   
              </li>
              <li>
                To find <strong class="cb-bold">High Encryption Pack (HEP)</strong>, 
                enter <strong class="cb-userinput">High Encryption Pack</strong> to the search field and
                and click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Search</strong>. Add the Windows 2000 update
                to your basket.   
              </li>
              <li>
                Download and install the selected updates.  Updates require computer reboot.
              </li>  
          </ul>

        <h2 class="step-heading">Step 3: Run autoconfiguration</h2>

        <p>
          To configure your VPN connection, select your operating system, click
          <strong class="cb-guilabel">Autoconfigure</strong>, and run the downloaded
          executable (.EXE) file.
          If you wish to configure your VPN connection manually, click <strong class="cb-guilabel">Configure manually</strong>.
        </p>

        <p>
          <n:invisible n:render="form autoconfigure" />
        </p>
        <n:invisible n:render="form_autoconfigure_onsubmit_adder" />

        <n:invisible n:render="form user_information_form" />
      </div>
    </n:invisible>
  </body>
</html>

